AUSTRALIA.

The continent of Australia lies between 113° and 153° E. Long., and 11° and 39° S. Lat. Its climate therefore varies very much. It is, however, very healthy, and except in the northern district of Queensland and the northern parts of South Australia is not so hot as to prevent Europeans working in the fields. The seasons are the reverse of those in Europe, midsummer being in the month of December, and midwinter in the month of June.

In the Australian colonies there is ample employment for an unlimited number of emigrants. The wages vary somewhat in each, but as a general rule it may be stated that they are considerably higher than in England or in any country on the continent of Europe. Provisions are at the same time cheap and abundant, and lodgings are not dear. A working man can scarcely fail to improve his condition by emigrating to Australia. The classes most in demand are agricultural labourers, skilled and unskilled, shepherds and stockmen, carpenters, smiths, bricklayers, &c.; and more than all, female domestic servants. For clerks, shopmen, governesses, and persons of that description there is no demand.

In all the colonies land can be obtained without difficulty. The usual system of sale is by auction at an upset price, generally of 1l. an acre. In some of the colonies facilities are afforded for acquiring land by yearly payments of rent, or interest on the price. Conditions of occupation and improvement are
attached to lands acquired under this system. Licenses to occupy extensive runs for the depasturing of sheep and cattle are also granted at inconsiderable rents; but as none except large capitalists, for whom this notice is not intended, can undertake the rearing of flocks and herds, it is unnecessary to describe here the system under which runs are let.

The cost of a passages to Australia, including a full dietary, is about 15l. per adult, and half that amount for children between 1 and 12 years. In Queensland, persons paying the passages of themselves and their families or servants are entitled to land orders for the selection of 40 acres of country land for each passage of an adult, and 20 acres for that of each child between 1 and 12 years. In these cases the holder of the land order receives a license to occupy the land for five years, and if at the end of that time he has resided on the land continuously for three years, and has cultivated one-tenth, or fenced the whole, he is entitled to a free grant.

In South Australia also persons approved by the Emigration Agent in England, and paying the whole cost of their passages, are entitled to receive land-order warrants of the value of 20l. for every adult over 12 years of age, and 10l. for every child between the ages of 1 and 12. These warrants are exchanged in the colony for land orders, which entitle the holder to occupy, reside on, and cultivate the Crown lands, and are taken as payment or part payment of the purchase of land; but no land grant is issued in respect of them until the holder has resided two years in the colony.

In Tasmania assisted passages are granted to the nominees of colonists; and emigrants paying their own passages out to that Colony and to Western Australia are entitled under certain settlement conditions to small grants of land varying from 10 to 30 acres. The price of Crown land laid out for special occupation in Western Australia is fixed at 10s. an acre.

The average length of the voyage to Australia is not less than three months, and as the emigrant will pass through both hot and cold latitudes, he should provide himself with as much good clothing as he can afford. If possible he should have not less than six shirts besides two of flannel, six pairs of stockings, two complete suits of strong clothes, two pairs of boots or shoes, four towels, and two lbs. of yellow soap. The outfit of females should be in proportion. Three sheets should also be provided for each berth. The wear and tear of clothing on shipboard is considerable, and the more therefore an emigrant has the better. The quantity of luggage allowed to each steerage passenger is from 10 to 20 cubic feet according to agreement. All luggage should be packed in strong cases and properly marked.

Ships sail for Australia at regular intervals from London, Liverpool, Glasgow, and other ports. The dates of sailing, and the names of the agents, from whom all particulars can be ascertained, are published in the daily papers. The agents in London for the Australian Colonies are—

New South Wales.—W. Forster, Esq., No. 3, Westminster Chambers, Victoria Street, Westminster.
Victoria.—A. Michie, Esq., Q.C., No. 8, Victoria Chambers, Victoria Street, Westminster.
Queensland.—A. M. McAlister, Esq., No. 92, Charing Cross, Westminster.
South Australia.—The Agent-General, No. 37, Great George Street, Westminster.

There are also emigration agents at the ports of arrival of the several colonies to give advice and assistance to emigrants, and depôts are provided in which female emigrants seeking engagements may find temporary accommodation.

NEW ZEALAND.

This colony lies between the 162° east and 173° west longitude, and between the 33° and 53° S. latitude, and is nearly the Antipodes of Great Britain. It comprises three islands, known as the North, Middle, and South (or Stewarts) islands. It is in the two former alone that European settlements have taken place.

The climate of New Zealand is very healthy and agreeable. The mean annual temperature of the North Island is 57° F., and of the Middle Island 52°, which is some degrees warmer than the mean annual temperature of London. Snow seldom lies in the plains of the North Island, and not often in the Middle Island, and frosts are comparatively rare.

The formation of railways within the settled districts of the colony and of roads through the districts hitherto exclusively occupied by natives has created a large demand for labour of all kinds. Agricultural labourers are in most general demand; but country mechanics and working tradesmen of all kinds find ready employment. For single women there is always a pressing demand both for domestic and dairy work.

The rates of wages and costs of living in New Zealand are about the same as in the Australian colonies.

New Zealand is divided into eight provinces—Auckland, Taranaki, Wellington, and Hawkes Bay in the North Island, and Nelson, Marlborough, Canterbury, and Otago in the Middle Island. The mode of disposing of the waste lands differs somewhat in each province, but the general rule is sale at auction at an upset price varying from 5s. to 40s. per acre. Town and suburban lands sell higher. In Auckland and part of Otago lands are set apart for special settlement, and in Auckland any settler of 18 years or upwards is authorized to take possession of 40 acres of any surveyed land proclaimed as open for occupation, and on proving three years continuous occupation and the cultivation of one-fifth becomes entitled to a free grant.

The average voyage to New Zealand is somewhat longer than to Australia, and the cost rather higher. In other respects what has been said above in regard to outfit, &c., is as applicable to the New Zealand as to the Australian voyage.

There are also at the principal ports agents to advise and assist emigrants, and depôts for females seeking employment.

The principal agent for New Zealand in this country is—

Sir Julius Vogel, K.C.M.G., 7, Westminster Chambers, Victoria Street, Westminster, S.W.

The principal agent for the Continent is—

Mr. William Kirchner, of Darmstadt.
CAPE OF GOOD HOPE, AND NATAL.

The former Colony grants free passages to skilled artizans, and assisted passages to artizans, labourers, &c. The agent for the Colony is—

W. Burnet, Esq., 15, Coleman Street, London.

Natal grants assisted passages, through its emigration agent,—

J. G. Rolls, Esq., 79, Coleman Street, London.

Government Emigration Board, Downing Street.

July, 1874.
PART IV.

SOME LOCAL AND IMPERIAL ACTS OF GENERAL IMPORTANCE.

IMPERIAL STATUTES RELATING TO THE COLONIES.

An Index of all Imperial Statutes relating exclusively to the Colonies will be found in the Chronological Table and Index to the Statutes to the end of the Session of 1874—37 and 38 Victoria, pages 674 to 684: London, published by Authority, 1874. [Ed. C. O. List.]

EXPORT OF ARMS.

The following is a list of colonial laws empowering the executive government in the colonies to prevent the Export of Arms or Munitions of War.

The greater number of the laws follow in substance the 150th section of "The English Customs Consolidation Act, 1853" (16 and 17 Vic., c. 107). Those marked with an asterisk, differ from that enactment generally in the direction of admitting partial prohibitions of export, as distinguished from general prohibitions, accompanied by special permits in particular cases.

Antigua—Act No. 3 of 1871.
Bahamas—Act 36 Vict., c. 8, s. 151.
Barbados—Trade Act, 1870, cl. 32.
Bermuda—Act No. 3 of 1862, rendered perpetual by Act No. 6 of 1864.
British Honduras—Act No. 4 of 25 Vict., aided temporarily by Act No. 10 of 30 Vict., which has now expired.
Canada—Act 31 Vict., c. 6, s. 124.
*Cape (Inland only)—Ordinance No. 81 of 1830, No. 2 of 1853, Acts No. 14 of 1857, and No. 28 of 1864.
Ceylon—Ordinance No. 17 of 1869, s. 95.
Dominica—Act of 5th May, 1871.
Hong Kong—Ordinance No. 3 of 1862.
*Jamaica—Act No. 23 of 25 Vict., and law No. 23 of 1873.
*Labuan—Ordinance No. 3 of 1866.
Lagos—Ordinance No. 1 of 1873.
*Malta—Ordinance No. 6 of 1840, s. 6.
*Mauritius—Ordinance No. 14 of 1858.
Natal—Act No. 8 of 1862.
Newfoundland—Act 33 Vict., c. 11.
New Zealand—Customs Act No. 40 of 21 and 22 Vict., s. 122.
Queensland—Customs Act No. 1 of 1873, s. 147.
St. Helena—Act No. 2 of 1871.
St. Kitts—Act No. 222 of 15th September, 1865, s. 10.
St. Vincent—Act No. 178, April, 1862.
South Australia—Customs Acts 1864, s. 119.
*Straits Settlements—Ordinance No. 13 of 1867.
Tasmania—Act No. 3 of 1861, s. 104, being a re-enactment of Act 3 of 1860.
Tobago—Act No. 11 of 26 Vict.
*Trinidad—Ordinance No. 14 of 1862.
Victoria—Act No. 13 of 21 Vict., s. 123 (all goods).
Virgin Islands—Ordinance No. 2 of 1871.
Western Australia—Act 35 Vict., c. 9.
LOCAL AND IMPERIAL ACTS OF GENERAL IMPORTANCE.

THE FOREIGN ENLISTMENT ACT.

38 & 34 VICT., CHAP. XC.

An Act to regulate the conduct of Her Majesty's Subjects during the existence of hostilities between Foreign States with which Her Majesty is at peace.

[9th August, 1870.]

WHEREAS it is expedient to make provision for the regulation of the conduct of Her Majesty's subjects during the existence of hostilities between foreign states with which Her Majesty is at peace:

Be it enacted by the Queen's most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:

Preliminary.

1. This Act may be cited for all purposes as "The Foreign Enlistment Act, 1870."

2. This Act shall extend to all the dominions of Her Majesty, including the adjacent territorial waters.

3. This Act shall come into operation in the United Kingdom immediately on the passing thereof, and shall be proclaimed in every British possession by the governor thereof as soon as may be after he receives notice of this Act, and shall come into operation in that British possession on the day of such proclamation, and the time at which this Act comes into operation in any place is, as respects such place, in this Act referred to as the commencement of this Act.

Illegal Enlistment.

4. If any person, without the license of Her Majesty, being a British subject, within or without Her Majesty's dominions, accepts or agrees to accept any commission or engagement in the military or naval service of any foreign state at war with any foreign state at peace with Her Majesty, and in this Act referred to as a friendly state, or whether a British subject or not within Her Majesty's dominions, induces any other person to accept or agree to accept any commission or engagement in the military or naval service of any such foreign state as aforesaid,— He shall be guilty of an offence against this Act, and shall be punishable by fine and imprisonment, or either of such punishments, at the discretion of the court before which the offender is convicted; and imprisonment, if awarded, may be either with or without hard labour.

5. If any person, without the license of Her Majesty, being a British subject, quits or goes on board any ship with a view of quitting Her Majesty's dominions, with intent to accept any commission or engagement in the military or naval service of any foreign state at war with a friendly state, or, whether a British subject or not, within Her Majesty's dominions, induces any other person to quit or to go on board any ship with a view of quitting Her Majesty's dominions with the like intent,— He shall be guilty of an offence against this Act, and shall be punishable by fine and imprisonment, or either of such punishments, at the discretion of the court before which the offender is convicted; and imprisonment, if awarded, may be either with or without hard labour.

6. If any person induces any other person to quit Her Majesty's dominions or to embark on any ship within Her Majesty's dominions under a misrepresentation or false representation of the service in which such person is to be engaged, with the intent or in order that such person may accept or agree to accept any commission or engagement in the military or naval service of any foreign state at war with a friendly state,— He shall be guilty of an offence against this Act, and shall be punishable by fine and imprisonment, or either of such punishments, at the discretion of the court before which the offender is convicted; and imprisonment, if awarded, may be either with or without hard labour.

7. If the master or owner of any ship, without the license of Her Majesty, knowingly either takes on board, or engages to take on board, or has on board such ship within Her Majesty's dominions any of the following persons, in this Act referred to as illegally enlisted persons, that is to say:—

(1.) Any person who, being a British subject within or without the dominions of Her Majesty, has, without the license of Her Majesty, accepted or agreed to accept any commission or engagement in the military or naval service of any foreign state at war with any friendly state;

(2.) Any person, being a British subject, who, without the license of Her Majesty, is about to quit Her Majesty's dominions with intent to accept any commission or engagement in the military or naval service of any foreign state at war with a friendly state;

(3.) Any person who has been induced to embark under a misrepresentation or false representation of the service in which such person is to be engaged, with the intent or in order that such person may accept or agree to accept any commission or engagement in the military or naval service of any foreign state at war with a friendly state:

Such master or owner shall be guilty of an offence against this Act, and the following consequences shall ensue; that is to say:—

(1.) The offender shall be punishable by fine and imprisonment, or either of such punishments, at the discretion of the court before which the offender is convicted; and imprisonment, if awarded, may be either with or without hard labour; and

(2.) Such ship shall be detained until the trial and conviction or acquittal of the master or owner, and until all penalties inflicted on the master or owner have been paid, or the master or owner has given security for the payment of such penalties to the satisfaction of two justices of the peace, or other magistrate or magistrates having the authority of two justices of the peace; and

(3.) All illegally enlisted persons shall immediately on the discovery of the offence be taken on shore, and shall not be allowed to return to the ship.

Illegal Shipbuilding and Illegal Expeditions.

(8.) If any person within Her Majesty's dominions, without the license of Her Majesty, does any of the following acts; that is to say,—
LOCAL AND IMPERIAL ACTS OF GENERAL IMPORTANCE.

(1.) Builds or agrees to build, or causes to be built any ship with intent or knowledge, or having reasonable cause to believe that the same shall or will be employed in the military or naval service of any foreign state at war with any friendly state; or

(2.) Issues or delivers any commission for any ship with intent or knowledge, or having reasonable cause to believe that the same shall or will be employed in the military or naval service of any foreign state at war with any friendly state; or

(3.) Equips any ship with intent or knowledge, or having reasonable cause to believe that the same shall or will be employed in the military or naval service of any foreign state at war with any friendly state; or

(4.) Despatches, or causes or allows to be despatched, any ship with intent or knowledge, or having reasonable cause to believe that the same shall or will be employed in the military or naval service of any foreign state at war with any friendly state:

Such person shall be deemed to have committed an offence against this Act, and the following consequences shall ensue:

(1.) The offender shall be punishable by fine and imprisonment, or either of such punishments, at the discretion of the court before which the offender is convicted; and imprisonment, if awarded may be either with or without hard labour;

(2.) The ship in respect of which any such offence is committed, and her equipment, shall be forfeited to Her Majesty:

Provided that a person building, or caused to be built, or equipping a ship in any of the cases aforesaid, in pursuance of a contract made before the commencement of such war as aforesaid, shall not be liable to any of the penalties imposed by this section in respect of such building or equipping if he satisfies the conditions following (that is to say):

(1.) If forthwith upon a proclamation of neutrality being issued by Her Majesty he gives notice to the Secretary of State that he is so building, causing to be built, or equipping such ship, and furnishes such particulars of the contract and of any matters relating to, or done, or to be done under the contract as may be required by the Secretary of State;

(2.) If he gives such security, and takes and permits to be taken such other measures, if any, as the Secretary of State may prescribe for ensuring that such ship shall not be despatched, delivered, or removed without the license of Her Majesty until the termination of such war as aforesaid.

9. Where any ship is built by order of or on behalf of any foreign state when at war with a friendly state, or is delivered to or to the order of such foreign state, or any person who to the knowledge of the person building is an agent of such foreign state or is paid for by such foreign state or such agent, and is employed in the military or naval service of such foreign state, such ship shall, until the contrary is proved, be deemed to have been built with a view to being so employed, and the burden shall lie on the builder of such ship of proving that he did not know that the ship was intended to be so employed in the military or naval service of such foreign state.

10. If any person within the dominions of Her Majesty, and without the license of Her Majesty—

By adding to the number of the guns, or by changing those on board for other guns, or by the addition of any equipment for war, increases or augments, or procures to be increased or augmented, or is knowingly concerned in increasing or augmenting the warlike force of any ship which at the time of her being within the dominions of Her Majesty was a ship in the military or naval service of any foreign state at war with any friendly state—

Such person shall be guilty of an offence against this Act, and shall be punishable by fine and imprisonment, or either of such punishments, at the discretion of the court before which the offender is convicted; and imprisonment, if awarded, may be either with or without hard labour.

11. If any person within the limits of Her Majesty's dominions, and without the license of Her Majesty—

Prepares or fits out any naval or military expedition to proceed against the dominions of any friendly state, the following consequences shall ensue:

(1.) Every person engaged in such preparation or fitting out, or assisting therein, or employed in any capacity in such expedition, shall be guilty of an offence against this Act, and shall be punishable by fine and imprisonment, or either of such punishments, at the discretion of the court before which the offender is convicted; and imprisonment, if awarded, may be either with or without hard labour.

(2.) All ships, and their equipments, and all arms and munitions of war, used in or forming part of such expedition, shall be forfeited to Her Majesty.

12. Any person who aids, abets, counsels, or procures the commission of any offence against this Act, shall be liable to be tried and punished as a principal offender.

13. The term of imprisonment to be awarded in respect of any offence against this Act shall not exceed two years.

Illegal Prize.

14. If, during the continuance of any war in which Her Majesty may be neutral, any ship, goods, or merchandise captured as prize of war within the territorial jurisdiction of Her Majesty, in violation of the neutrality of this realm, or captured by any ship which may have been built, equipped, commissioned, or despatched, or the force of which may have been augmented, contrary to the provisions of this Act, are brought within the limits of Her Majesty's dominions by the captor, or any agent of the captor, or by any person having come into possession thereof with knowledge that the same was prize of war so captured as aforesaid, it shall be lawful for the original owner of such prize, or his agent, or for any person authorised in that behalf by the Government of the foreign state to which such owner belongs, to make application to the Court of Admiralty for seizure and detention of such prize, and the court shall, on due proof of the facts, order such prize to be restored.

Every such order shall be executed and carried into effect in the same manner, and subject to the same right of appeal, as in case of any order made in the exercise of the ordinary jurisdiction of such court;
and in the meantime and until a final order has been made on such application the court shall have power to make all such provisional and other orders as to the care or custody of such captured ship, goods, or merchandise, and (if the same be of perishable nature, or incurring risk of deterioration) for the sale thereof, and with respect to the deposit or investment of the proceeds of any such sale, as may be made by such court in the exercise of its ordinary jurisdiction.

General Provision.

15. For the purposes of this Act, a license by Her Majesty shall be under the sign manual of Her Majesty, or be signified by Order in Council or by proclamation of Her Majesty.

Legal Procedure.

16. Any offence against this Act shall, for all purposes of and incidental to the trial and punishment of any person guilty of any such offence, be deemed to have been committed either in the place in which the offence was wholly or partly committed, or in any place within Her Majesty's dominions in which the person who committed such offence may be.

17. Any offence against this Act may be described in any indictment or other document relating to such offence, in cases where the mode of trial requires such a description, as having been committed at the place where it was wholly or partly committed, or it may be averred generally to have been committed within Her Majesty's dominions, and the venue or local description in the margin may be that of the county, city, or place in which the trial is held.

18. The following authorities, that is to say, in the United Kingdom any judge of a superior court, in any other place within the jurisdiction of any British court of justice, such court, or, if there are more courts than one, the court having the highest criminal jurisdiction in that place, may, by warrant or instrument in the nature of a warrant in this section included in the term "warrant," direct that any offender charged with an offence against this Act shall be removed to some other place in Her Majesty's dominions for trial in cases where it appears to the authority granting the warrant that the removal of such offender would be conducive to the interests of justice, and any prisoner so removed shall be triable at the place to which he is removed, in the same manner as if his offence had been committed at such place.

Any warrant for the purposes of this section may be addressed to the master of any ship or to any other person or persons, and the person or persons to whom such warrant is addressed shall have power to convey the prisoner therein named to any place or places named in such warrant, and to deliver him, when arrived at such place or places, into the custody of any authority designated by such warrant.

Every prisoner shall, during the time of his removal under any such warrant as aforesaid, be deemed to be in the legal custody of the person or persons empowered to remove him.

19. All proceedings for the condemnation and forfeiture of a ship, or ship and equipment, or arms and munitions of war, in pursuance of this Act shall require the sanction of the Secretary of State or such chief executive authority as is in this Act mentioned, and shall be had in the Court of Admiralty, and not in any other court; and the Court of Admiralty shall, in addition to any power given to the court by this Act, have in respect of any ship or other matter brought before it in pursuance of this Act all powers which it has in the case of a ship or matter brought before it in the exercise of its ordinary jurisdiction.

20. Where any offence against this Act has been committed by any person by reason whereof a ship, or ship and equipment, or arms and munitions of war, has or have become liable to forfeiture, proceedings may be instituted contemporaneously or not, as may be thought fit, against the offender in any court having jurisdiction of the offence, and against the ship, or ship and equipment, or arms and munitions of war, for the forfeiture in the Court of Admiralty; but it shall not be necessary to take proceedings against the offender, because proceedings are instituted for the forfeiture, or to take proceedings for the forfeiture because proceedings are taken against the offender.

21. The following officers, that is to say—

(1.) Any officer of customs in the United Kingdom, subject nevertheless to any special or general instructions from the Commissioners of Customs or any officer of the Board of Trade, subject nevertheless to any special or general instructions from the Board of Trade;

(2.) Any officer of customs or public officer in any British possession, subject nevertheless to any special or general instructions from the governor of such possession;

(3.) Any commissioned officer on full pay in the military service of the Crown, subject nevertheless to any special or general instructions from his commanding officer;

(4.) Any commissioned officer on full pay in the naval service of the Crown, subject nevertheless to any special or general instructions from the Admiralty or his superior officer,

may seize or detain any ship liable to be seized or detained in pursuance of this Act, and such officers are in this Act referred to as the "local authority;" but nothing in this Act contained shall derogate from the power of the Court of Admiralty to direct any ship to be seized or detained by any officer by whom such court may have power under its ordinary jurisdiction to direct a ship to be seized or detained.

22. Any officer authorised to seize or detain any ship in respect of any offence against this Act may, for the purpose of enforcing such seizure or detention, call to his aid any constable or officers of police, or any officers of Her Majesty's army or navy or marines, or any excise officers or officers of customs, or any harbour-master or dock-master, or any officers having authority by law to make seizures of ships, and may put on board any ship so seized or detained any one or more of such officers to take charge of the same, and to enforce the provisions of this Act, and any officer seizing or detaining any ship under this Act may use force, if necessary, for the purpose of enforcing seizure or detention, and if any person is killed or maimed by reason of his resisting such officer in the execution of his duties, or any person acting under his orders, such officer so seizing or detaining the ship, or other person, shall be freely and fully indemnified as well against the Queen's Majesty, her heirs and successors against all persons so killed, maimed, or hurt.
23. If the Secretary of State or the chief executive authority is satisfied that there is a reasonable and probable cause for believing that a ship within Her Majesty's dominions has been or is being built, commissioned, or equipped contrary to this Act, and is about to be taken beyond the limits of such dominions, or that a ship is about to be despatched contrary to this Act, such Secretary of State or chief executive authority shall have power to issue a warrant stating that there is reasonable and probable cause for believing as aforesaid, and upon such warrant the local authority shall have power to seize and search such ship and to detain the same until it has been either condemned or released by process of law, or in manner hereinafter mentioned.

The owner of the ship so detained, or his agent, may apply to the Court of Admiralty for its release, and the court shall as soon as possible put the matter of such seizure and detention in course of trial between the applicant and the Crown.

If the applicant establish to the satisfaction of the court that the ship was not and is not being built, commissioned, or equipped, or intended to be despatched contrary to this Act, the ship shall be released and restored.

If the applicant fail to establish to the satisfaction of the court that the ship was not and is not being built, commissioned, or equipped, or intended to be despatched contrary to this Act, then the ship shall be detained till released by order of the Secretary of State or chief executive authority.

The court may, in cases where no proceedings are pending for its condemnation, release any ship detained under this section on the owner giving security to the satisfaction of the court that the ship shall not be employed contrary to this Act, notwithstanding that the applicant may have failed to establish to the satisfaction of the court that the ship was not and is not being built, commissioned, or intended to be despatched contrary to this Act. The Secretary of State or the chief executive authority may likewise release any ship detained under this section on the owner giving security to the satisfaction of such Secretary of State or chief executive authority that the ship shall not be employed contrary to this Act, or may release the ship without such security if the Secretary of State or chief executive authority think fit so to release the same.

If the court be of opinion that there was not reasonable and probable cause for the detention, and if no such cause appear in the course of the proceedings, the court shall have power to declare that the owner is to be indemnified by the payment of costs and damages in respect of the detention, the amount thereof to be assessed by the court, and any amount so assessed shall be payable by the Commissioners of the Treasury out of any moneys legally applicable for that purpose. The Court of Admiralty shall also have power to make a like order for the indemnity of the owner, on the application of such owner to the court in a summary way, in cases where the ship is released by the order of the Secretary of State or the chief executive authority, before any application is made by the owner or his agent to the court for such release.

Nothing in this section contained shall affect any proceedings instituted or to be instituted for the condemnation of any ship detained under this section where such ship is liable to forfeiture, subject to this provision that if such ship is restored in pursuance of this section, all proceedings for such condemnation shall be stayed; and where the court declares that the owner is to be indemnified by the payment of costs and damages for the detainer, all costs, charges, and expenses incurred by such owner in or about any proceedings for the condemnation of such ship shall be added to the costs and damages payable to him in respect of the detention of the ship.

Nothing in this section contained shall apply to any foreign non-commissioned ship despatched from any part of Her Majesty's dominions after having come within them under stress of weather or in the course of a peaceful voyage, and upon which ship no fitting out or equipping of a warlike character has taken place in this country.

24. Where it is represented to any local authority, as defined by this Act, and such local authority believes the representation, that there is a reasonable and probable cause for believing that a ship within Her Majesty's dominions has been or is being built, commissioned, or equipped contrary to this Act, and is about to be taken beyond the limits of such dominions, or that a ship is about to be despatched contrary to this Act, it shall be the duty of such local authority to detain such ship, and forthwith to communicate the fact of such detention to the Secretary of State or chief executive authority.

Upon the receipt of such communication the Secretary of State or chief executive authority may order the ship to be released if he thinks there is no cause for detaining her, but if satisfied that there is reasonable and probable cause for believing that such ship was built, commissioned, or equipped or intended to be despatched in contravention of this Act, he shall issue his warrant stating that there is reasonable and probable cause for believing as aforesaid, and upon such warrant being issued further proceedings shall be had as in cases where the seizure or detention has taken place on a warrant issued by the Secretary of State without any communication from the local authority.

Where the Secretary of State or chief executive authority orders the ship to be released on the receipt of a communication from the local authority without issuing his warrant, the owner of the ship shall be indemnified by the payment of costs and damages in respect of the detention upon application to the Court of Admiralty in a summary way in like manner as he is entitled to be indemnified where the Secretary of State having issued his warrant under this Act releases the ship before any application is made by the owner or his agent to the court for such redress.

25. The Secretary of State or the chief executive authority may, by warrant, empower any person to enter any dockyard or other place within Her Majesty's dominions and inquire as to the destination of any ship which may appear to him to be intended to be employed in the naval or military service of any foreign state at war with a friendly state, and to search such ship.

26. Any powers or jurisdiction by this Act given to the Secretary of State may be exercised by him throughout the dominions of Her Majesty, and such powers and jurisdiction may also be exercised by any of the following officers, in this Act referred to as the chief executive authority, within their respective jurisdictions; that is to say:

(I.) In Ireland by the Lord Lieutenant or other the chief governor or governors of Ireland for the time being, or the chief secretary to the Lord Lieutenant:
LOCAL AND IMPERIAL ACTS OF GENERAL IMPORTANCE.

(2.) In Jersey by the Lieutenant Governor:
(3.) In Guernsey, Alderney, and Sark, and the dependent islands by the Lieutenant Governor:
(4.) In the Isle of Man by the Lieutenant Governor:
(5.) In any British possession by the Governor:

A copy of any warrant issued by a Secretary of State or by any officer authorised in pursuance of this Act to issue such warrant in Ireland, the Channel Islands, or the Isle of Man shall be laid before Parliament.

27. An appeal may be had from any decision of a Court of Admiralty under this Act to the same tribunal, and in the same manner to and in which an appeal may be had in cases within the ordinary jurisdiction of the court as a Court of Admiralty.

28. Subject to the provisions of this Act providing for the award of damages in certain cases in respect of the seizure or detention of a ship by the Court of Admiralty no damages shall be payable, and no officer or local authority shall be responsible either civilly or criminally, in respect of the seizure or detention of any ship in pursuance of this Act.

29. The Secretary of State shall not, nor shall the chief executive authority, be responsible in any action or other legal proceedings whatsoever for any warrant issued by him in pursuance of this Act, or be examinable as a witness, except at his own request, in any court of justice in respect of the circumstances which led to the issue of the warrant.

Interpretation Clause.

30. In this Act, if not inconsistent with the context, the following terms have the meanings hereinafter respectively assigned to them, that is to say:

"Foreign state" includes any foreign prince, colony, province, or part of any province or people, or any person or person exercising or assuming to exercise the powers of government in or over any foreign country, colony, province, or part of any province or people;

"Military service" shall include military telegraphy and any other employment whatever, in or in connexion with any military operation;

"Naval service" shall, as respects a person, include service as a marine, employment as a pilot in piloting or directing the course of a ship of war or other ship when such ship of war or other ship is being used in any military or naval operation, and any employment whatever on board a ship of war, transport, store ship, privateer or ship under letters of marque; and as respects a ship, include any user of a ship as a transport, store ship, privateer or ship under letters of marque;

"United Kingdom" includes the Isle of Man, the Channel Islands, and other adjacent islands;

"British possession" means any territory, colony, or place being part of Her Majesty's dominions, and not part of the United Kingdom, as defined by this Act;

"The Secretary of State" shall mean any one of Her Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State;

"The Governor" shall, as respects India, mean the Governor General or the governor of any presidency, and where a British possession consists of several constituent colonies, mean the Governor General of the whole possession or the Governor of any of the constituent colonies, and as respects any other British possession it shall mean the officer for the time being administering the government of such possession; also any person acting for or in the capacity of a governor shall be included under the term "Governor";

"Courts of Admiralty" shall mean the High Court of Admiralty of England or Ireland, the Court of Session of Scotland, or any Vice-Admiralty Court within Her Majesty's dominions;

"Ship" shall include any description of boat, vessel, floating battery, or floating craft; also any description of boat, vessel, or other craft or battery, made to move either on the surface of or under water, or sometimes on the surface of and sometimes under water;

"Building" in relation to a ship shall include the doing any act towards or incidental to the construction of a ship, and all words having relation to building shall be construed accordingly;

"Equipping" in relation to a ship shall include the furnishing a ship with any tackle, apparel, furniture, provisions, arms, munitions, or stores, or any other thing which is used in or about a ship for the purpose of fitting or adapting her for the sea or for naval service, and all words relating to equipping shall be construed accordingly;

"Ship and equipment" shall include a ship and everything in or belonging to a ship;

"Master" shall include any person having the charge or command of a ship.

Repeal of Acts, and Saving Clauses.

31. From and after the commencement of this Act, an Act passed in the fifty-ninth year of the reign of His late Majesty King George the Third, chapter sixty-nine, intituled "An Act to prevent the enlisting or engagement of His Majesty's subjects to serve in foreign service, and the fitting out or equipping, in His Majesty's dominions, vessels for warlike purposes, without His Majesty's license," shall be repealed: Provided that such repeal shall not affect any penalty, forfeiture, or other punishment incurred or to be incurred in respect of any offence committed before this Act comes into operation, nor the institution of any investigation or legal proceeding, or any other remedy for enforcing any such penalty, forfeiture, or punishment as aforesaid.

32. Nothing in this Act contained shall subject to forfeiture any commissioned ship of any foreign state, or give to any British court over or in respect of any ship entitled to recognition as a commissioned ship of any foreign state any jurisdiction which it would not have had if this Act had not passed.

33. Nothing in this Act contained shall extend or be construed to extend to subject to any penalty any person who enters into the military service of any prince, state, or potentate in Asia, with such leave or license as is for the time being required by law in the case of subjects of Her Majesty entering into the military service of princes, states, or potentates in Asia.
LOCAL AND IMPERIAL ACTS OF GENERAL IMPORTANCE.

THE EXTRADITION ACTS.

33 & 34 VICT., CAP. LIL

An Act for amending the Law relating to the Extradition of Criminals.

[9th August, 1870.]

WHEREAS it is expedient to amend the law relating to the surrender to foreign states of persons accused or convicted of the commission of certain crimes within the jurisdiction of such states, and to the trial of criminals surrendered by foreign states to this country:

Be it enacted by the Queen's Most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:

Preliminary.

1. This Act may be cited as "The Extradition Act, 1870."

2. Where an arrangement has been made with any foreign state with respect to the surrender to such state of any fugitive criminals, Her Majesty may, by Order in Council, direct that this Act shall apply in the case of such foreign state.

Her Majesty may, by the same or any subsequent order, limit the operation of the order, and restrict the same to fugitive criminals who are in or suspected of being in the part of Her Majesty's dominions specified in the order, and render the operation thereof subject to such conditions, exceptions, and qualifications as may be deemed expedient.

Every such order shall recite or embody the terms of the arrangement, and shall not remain in force for any longer period than the arrangement.

Every such order shall be laid before both Houses of Parliament within six weeks after it is made, or, if Parliament be not then sitting, within six weeks after the then next meeting of Parliament, and shall also be published in the London Gazette.

3. The following restrictions shall be observed with respect to the surrender of fugitive criminals:

(1.) A fugitive criminal shall not be surrendered if the offence in respect of which his surrender is demanded is one of a political character, or if he prove to the satisfaction of the police magistrate or the court before whom he is brought on habeas corpus, or to the Secretary of State, that the requisition for his surrender has in fact been made with a view to try or punish him for an offence of a political character;

(2.) A fugitive criminal shall not be surrendered to a foreign state unless provision is made by the law of that state, or by arrangement, that the fugitive criminal shall not, until he has been restored or had an opportunity of returning to Her Majesty's dominions, be detained or tried in that foreign state for any offence committed prior to his surrender other than the extradition crime proved by the facts on which the surrender is grounded;

(3.) A fugitive criminal who has been accused of some offence within English jurisdiction not being the offence for which his surrender is asked, or is undergoing sentence under any conviction in the United Kingdom, shall not be surrendered until after he has been discharged, whether by acquittal or an expiration of his sentence or otherwise;

(4.) A fugitive criminal shall not be surrendered until the expiration of fifteen days from the date of his being committed to prison to await his surrender.

4. An Order in Council for applying this Act in the case of any foreign state shall not be made unless the arrangement—

(1.) provides for the determination of it by either party to it after the expiration of a notice not exceeding one year; and,

(2.) is in conformity with the provisions of this Act, and in particular with the restrictions on the surrender of fugitive criminals contained in this Act.

5. When an order applying this Act in the case of any foreign state has been published in the London Gazette, this Act (after the date specified in the order, or if no date is specified, after the date of the publication,) shall, so long as the order remains in force, but subject to the limitations, restrictions, conditions, exceptions, and qualifications, if any, contained in the order, apply in the case of such foreign state. An Order in Council shall be conclusive evidence that the arrangement therein referred to complies with the requisitions of this Act, and that this Act applies in the case of the foreign state mentioned in the order, and the validity of such order shall not be questioned in any legal proceedings whatever.

6. Where this Act applies in the case of any foreign state, every fugitive criminal of that state who is in or suspected of being in any part of Her Majesty's dominions, or that part which is specified in the order applying this Act (as the case may be), shall be liable to be apprehended and surrendered in manner provided by this Act, whether the crime in respect of which the surrender is sought was committed before or after the date of the order, and whether there is or is not any concurrent jurisdiction in any court of Her Majesty's dominions over that crime.

7. A requisition for the surrender of a fugitive criminal of any foreign state, who is in or suspected of being in the United Kingdom, shall be made to a Secretary of State by some person recognised by the Secretary of State as a diplomatic representative of that foreign state. A Secretary of State may, by order under his hand and seal, signify to a police magistrate that such requisition has been made, and require him to issue his warrant for the apprehension of the fugitive criminal.

If the Secretary of State is of opinion that the offence is one of a political character, he may, if he think fit, refuse to send any such order, and may also at any time order a fugitive criminal accused or convicted of such offence to be discharged from custody.

8. A warrant for the apprehension of a fugitive criminal, whether accused or convicted of crime, who is in or suspected of being in the United Kingdom, may be issued—

1. by a police magistrate on the receipt of the said order of the Secretary of State, and on such
evidence as would in his opinion justify the issue of the warrant if the crime had been committed by the criminal convicted in England; and

2. by a police magistrate or any justice of the peace in any part of the United Kingdom, on such information or complaint, and such evidence or after such proceedings as would in the opinion of the person issuing the warrant justify the issue of a warrant if the crime had been committed or the criminal convicted in that part of the United Kingdom in which he exercises jurisdiction.

Any person issuing a warrant under this section without an order from a Secretary of State shall forthwith send a report of the fact of such issue, together with the evidence and information or complaint, or certified copies thereof, to a Secretary of State, who may if he think fit order the warrant to be cancelled, and the person who has been apprehended on the warrant to be discharged.

A fugitive criminal, when apprehended on a warrant issued without the order of a Secretary of State, shall be brought before some person having power to issue a warrant under this section, who shall by warrant order him to be brought, and the prisoner shall accordingly be brought before a police magistrate.

A fugitive criminal apprehended on a warrant issued without the order of a Secretary of State, shall be discharged by the police magistrate, unless the police magistrate, within such reasonable time as, with reference to the circumstances of the case, he may fix, receives from a Secretary of State an order signifying that a requisition has been made for the surrender of such criminal.

9. When a fugitive criminal is brought before the police magistrate, the police magistrate shall hear the case in the same manner, and have the same jurisdiction and powers, as near as may be, as if the prisoner were brought before him charged with an indictable offence committed in England.

The police magistrate shall receive any evidence which may be tendered to show that the crime of which the prisoner is accused or alleged to have been convicted is an offence of a political character or is not an extradition crime.

10. In the case of a fugitive criminal accused of an extradition crime, if the foreign warrant authorising the arrest of such criminal is duly authenticated, and such evidence is produced as (subject to the provisions of this Act) would, according to the law of England, justify the committal for trial of the prisoner if the crime of which he is accused had been committed in England, the police magistrate shall commit him to prison, but otherwise shall order him to be discharged.

In the case of a fugitive criminal alleged to have been convicted of an extradition crime, if such evidence is produced as (subject to the provisions of this Act) would, according to the law of England, prove that the prisoner was convicted of such crime, the police magistrate shall commit him to prison, but otherwise shall order him to be discharged.

If he commits such criminal to prison, he shall commit him to the Middlesex House of Detention, or to some other prison in Middlesex, there to await the warrant of a Secretary of State for his surrender, and shall forthwith send to a Secretary of State a certificate of the committal, and such report upon the case as he may think fit.

11. If the police magistrate commits a fugitive criminal to prison, he shall inform such criminal that he will not be surrendered until after the expiration of fifteen days, and that he has a right to apply for a writ of habeas corpus.

Upon the expiration of the said fifteen days, or, if a writ of habeas corpus is issued, after the decision of the court upon the return to the writ, as the case may be, or after such further period as may be allowed in either case by a Secretary of State, it shall be lawful for a Secretary of State, by warrant under his hand and seal, to order the fugitive criminal (if not delivered on the decision of the court) to be surrendered to such person as may in his opinion be duly authorised to receive the fugitive criminal by the foreign state from which the requisition for the surrender proceeded, and such fugitive criminal shall be surrendered accordingly.

It shall be lawful for any person to whom such warrant is directed and for the person so authorised as aforesaid to receive, hold in custody, and convey within the jurisdiction of such foreign state the criminal mentioned in the warrant; and if the criminal escapes out of any custody to which he may be delivered on or in pursuance of such warrant, it shall be lawful to retake him in the same manner as any person accused of any crime against the laws of that part of Her Majesty's dominions to which he escapes may be retaken upon an escape.

12. If the fugitive criminal who has been committed to prison is not surrendered and conveyed out of the United Kingdom within two months after such committal, or, if a writ of habeas corpus is issued, after the decision of the court upon the return to the writ, it shall be lawful for any judge of one of Her Majesty's Supreme Courts at Westminster, upon application made to him by or on behalf of the criminal, and upon proof that reasonable notice of the intention to make such application has been given to a Secretary of State, to order the criminal to be discharged out of custody, unless sufficient cause is shown to the contrary.

13. The warrant of the police magistrate issued in pursuance of this Act may be executed in any part of the United Kingdom in the same manner as if the same had been originally issued or subsequently indorsed by a justice of the peace having jurisdiction in the place where the same is executed.

14. Depositions or statements on oath, taken in a foreign state, and copies of such original depositions or statements, and foreign certificates of or judicial documents stating the fact of conviction, may, if duly authenticated, be received in evidence in proceedings under this Act.

15. Foreign warrants and depositions or statements on oath, and copies thereof, and certificates of or judicial documents stating the fact of a conviction, shall be deemed duly authenticated for the purposes of this Act if authenticated in manner provided for the time being by law or authenticated as follows:

(1) If the warrant purports to be signed by a judge, magistrate, or officer of the foreign state where the same was issued;

(2) If the depositions or statements or the copies thereof purport to be certified under the hand of a judge, magistrate, or officer of the foreign state where the same were taken to be the original depositions or statements, or to be true copies thereof, as the case may require; and
3.) If the certificate of or judicial document stating the fact of conviction purports to be certified by a judge, magistrate, or officer of the foreign state where the conviction took place; and if in every case the warrants, depositions, statements, copies, certificates, and judicial documents (as the case may be) are authenticated by the oath of some witness or by being sealed with the official seal of the minister of justice, or some other minister of state: And all courts of justice, justices, and magistrates shall take judicial notice of such official seal, and shall admit the documents so authenticated by it to be received in evidence without further proof.

Crimes committed at sea.

16. Where the crime in respect of which the surrender of a fugitive criminal is sought was committed on board any vessel on the high seas which comes into any port of the United Kingdom, the following provisions shall have effect:

1. This Act shall be construed as if any stipendiary magistrate in England or Ireland, and any sheriff or sheriff substitute in Scotland, were substituted for the police magistrate throughout this Act, except the part relating to the execution of the warrant of the police magistrate:
2. The criminal may be committed to any prison to which the person committing him has power to commit persons accused of the like crime:
3. If the fugitive criminal is apprehended on a warrant issued without the order of a Secretary of State, he shall be brought before the stipendiary magistrate, sheriff, or sheriff substitute who issued the warrant, or who has jurisdiction in the port where the vessel lies, or in the place nearest to that port.

Fugitive criminals in British Possessions.

17. This Act, when applied by Order in Council, shall, unless it is otherwise provided by such order, extend to every British possession in the same manner as if throughout this Act the British possession were substituted for the United Kingdom or England, as the case may require, but with the following modifications; namely,

(1.) The requisition for the surrender of a fugitive criminal who is in or suspected of being in a British possession may be made to the governor of that British possession by any person recognised by that governor as a consul general, consul, or vice-consul, or (if the fugitive criminal has escaped from a colony or dependency of the foreign state on behalf of which the requisition is made) as the governor of such colony or dependency:
(2.) No warrant of a Secretary of State shall be required, and all powers vested in or acts authorised or required to be done under this Act by the police magistrate and the Secretary of State, or either of them, in relation to the surrender of a fugitive criminal, may be done by the governor of the British possession alone:
(3.) Any prison in the British possession may be substituted for a prison in Middlesex:
(4.) A judge of any court exercising in the British possession the like powers as the Court of Queen's Bench exercises in England, may exercise the power of discharging a criminal when not conveyed within two months out of such British possession.

18. If by any law or ordinance, made before or after the passing of this Act by the Legislature of any British possession, provision is made for carrying into effect within such possession the surrender of fugitive criminals who are in or suspected of being in such British possession, Her Majesty may, by the Order in Council applying this Act in the case of any foreign state, or by any subsequent order, either suspend the operation within any such British possession of this Act, or of any part thereof, so far as it relates to such foreign state, and so long as such law or ordinance continues in force there, and no longer;
or direct that such law or ordinance, or any part thereof, shall have effect in such British possession, with or without modifications and alterations, as if it were part of this Act.

General Provisions.

19. Where, in pursuance of any arrangement with a foreign state, any person accused or convicted of any crime which, if committed in England, would be one of the crimes described in the first schedule to this Act is surrendered by that foreign state, such person shall not, until he has been restored or had an opportunity of returning to such foreign state, be triable or tried for any offence committed prior to the surrender in any part of Her Majesty's dominions other than such of the said crimes as may be proved by the facts on which the surrender is grounded.

20. The forms set forth in the second schedule to this Act, or forms as near thereto as circumstances admit, may be used in all matters to which such forms refer, and in the case of a British possession may be so used, mutatis mutandis, and when used shall be deemed to be valid and sufficient in law.

21. Her Majesty may, by Order in Council, revoke or alter, subject to the restrictions of this Act, any Order in Council made in pursuance of this Act, and all the provisions of this Act with respect to the original order shall (so far as applicable) apply, mutatis mutandis, to any such new order.

22. This Act (except so far as relates to the execution of warrants in the Channel Islands) shall extend to the Channel Islands and Isle of Man in the same manner as if they were part of the United Kingdom; and the royal courts of the Channel Islands are hereby respectively authorised and required to register this Act.

23. Nothing in this Act shall affect the lawful powers of Her Majesty or of the Governor General of India in Council to make treaties for the extradition of criminals with Indian native states, or with other Asiatic states conterminous with British India, or to carry into execution the provisions of any such treaties made either before or after the passing of this Act.

24. The testimony of any witness may be obtained in relation to any criminal matter pending in any court or tribunal in a foreign state in like manner as it may be obtained in relation to any civil matter under the Act of the session of the nineteenth and twentieth years of the reign of Her present Majesty, chapter one hundred and thirteen, intituled "An Act to provide for taking evidence in Her Majesty's Dominions in relation to civil and commercial matters pending before foreign tribunals" and all the
provisions of that Act shall be construed as if the term civil matter included a criminal matter, and the term cause included a proceeding against a criminal: provided that nothing in this section shall apply in the case of any criminal matter of a political character.

25. For the purposes of this Act, every colony, dependency, and constituent part of a foreign state, and every vessel of that state, shall (except where expressly mentioned as distinct in this Act) be deemed to be within the jurisdiction of and to be part of such foreign state.

26. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,

The term "British possession" means any colony, plantation, island, territory, or settlement within Her Majesty's dominions, and not within the United Kingdom, the Channel Islands, and Isle of Man; and all colonies, plantations, islands, territories, and settlements under one legislature, as hereinafter defined, are deemed to be one British possession:

The term "legislature" means any person or persons who can exercise legislative authority in a British possession, and where there are local legislatures as well as a central legislature, means the central legislature only.

The term "governor" means any person or persons administering the government of a British possession, and includes the governor of any part of India;

The term "extradition crime" means a crime which, if committed in England or within English jurisdiction, would be one of the crimes described in the first schedule to this Act:

The terms "conviction" and "convicted" do not include or refer to a conviction which under foreign law is a conviction for contumacy, but the term "accused person" includes a person so convicted for contumacy;

The term "fugitive criminal" means any person accused or convicted of an extradition crime committed within the jurisdiction of any foreign state who is in or is suspected of being in some part of Her Majesty's dominions; and the term "fugitive criminal of a foreign state" means a fugitive criminal accused or convicted of an extradition crime committed within the jurisdiction of that state:

The term "Secretary of State" means one of Her Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State;

The term "police magistrate" means a chief magistrate of the metropolitan police courts, or one of the other magistrates of the metropolitan police court in Bow-street;

The term "justice of the peace" includes in Scotland any sheriff, sheriff's substitute, or magistrate;

The term "warrant" in the case of any foreign state, includes any judicial document authorising the arrest of a person accused or convicted of crime.

Repeal of Acts.

27. The Acts specified in the third schedule to this Act are hereby repealed as to the whole of Her Majesty's dominions; and this Act (with the exception of anything contained in it which is inconsistent with the treaties referred to in the Acts so repealed) shall apply (as regards crimes committed either before or after the passing of this Act), in the case of the foreign states with which those treaties are made, in the same manner as if an Order in Council referring to such treaties had been made in pursuance of this Act, and as if such order had directed that every law and ordinance which is in force in any British possession with respect to such treaties should have effect as part of this Act.

Provided that if any proceedings for or in relation to the surrender of a fugitive criminal have been commenced under the said Acts previously to the repeal thereof, such proceedings may be completed, and the fugitive surrendered, in the same manner as if this Act had not passed.

Schedules.

First Schedule.

List of Crimes.

The following list of crimes is to be construed according to the law existing in England, or in a British possession (as the case may be), at the date of the alleged crime, whether by common law or by a Statute made before or after the passing of this Act:

Murder, and attempt and conspiracy to murder.

Manslaughter.

Counterfeiting and altering money and uttering counterfeit or altered money.

Forgery, counterfeiting, and altering, and uttering what is forged or counterfeited or altered.

Embezzlement and larceny.

Obtaining money or goods by false pretences.

Crimes by bankrupts against bankruptcy law.

Fraud by a bailee, banker, agent, factor, trustee, or director, or member, or public officer of any company made criminal by any Act for the time being in force.

Rape.

Abduction.

Child stealing.

Burglary and housebreaking.

Arson.

Robbery with violence.

Threats by letter or otherwise with intent to extort.

Piracy by law of nations.

Sinking or destroying a vessel at sea, or attempting or conspiring to do so.

Assaults on board a ship on the high seas with intent to destroy life or to do grievous bodily harm.

Revolt or conspiracy to revolt by two or more persons on board a ship on the high seas against the authority of the master.
SECOND SCHEDULE.

Form of Order of Secretary of State to the Police Magistrate.

To the chief magistrate of the metropolitan police courts or other magistrate of the metropolitan police court in Bow Street [or the stipendiary magistrate at ].

WHEREAS, in pursuance of an arrangement with , referred to in an Order of Her Majesty in Council dated the day of , a requisition has been made to me, , one of Her Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State, by , the diplomatic representative of , for the surrender of accused [or convicted] of the commission of the crime of within the jurisdiction of ; Now I hereby, by this my order under my hand and seal, signify to you that such requisition has been made, and require you to issue your warrant for the apprehension of such fugitive, provided that the conditions of The Extradition Act, 1870, relating to the issue of such warrant, are in your judgment complied with.

Given under the hand and seal of the undersigned, one of Her Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State, this day of , 18 .

Form of Warrant of Apprehension by Order of Secretary of State.

Metropolitan police district, [or county or borough of ] To all and each of the constables of the metropolitan police force [or of the county or borough of ].

WHEREAS the Right Honourable Principal Secretaries of State, by order under his hand and seal, hath signified to me that requisition hath been duly made to him for the surrender of late of accused [or convicted] of the commission of the crime of within the jurisdiction of ; This is therefore to command you in Her Majesty's name forthwith to apprehend the said pursuant to "The Extradition Act, 1870," wherever he may be found in the United Kingdom or Isle of Man, and bring him before me or some other [*magistrate sitting in this court], to show cause why he should not be surrendered in pursuance of the said Extradition Act, for which this shall be your warrant.

Given under my hand and seal at [*Bow Street, one of the police courts of the metropolis] this day of 18 .

* Note.—Alter as required.

J. P.

Form of Warrant of Apprehension without Order of Secretary of State.

Metropolitan police district, [or county or borough of ] To all and each of the constables of the metropolitan police force [or of the county or borough of ].

Whereas it has been shown to the undersigned, one of Her Majesty's justices of the peace in and for the metropolitan police district [or the said county or borough of ] that late of is accused [or convicted] of the commission of the crime of within the jurisdiction of . This is therefore to command you in Her Majesty's name forthwith to apprehend the said and to bring him before me or some other magistrate sitting at this court [or one of Her Majesty's justices of the peace in and for the county [or borough of ] to be further dealt with according to law, for which this shall be your warrant.

Given under my hand and seal at Bow Street, one of the police courts of the metropolis, [or in the county or borough aforesaid] this day of 18 .

J. P.

Form of Warrant for bringing Prisoner before the Police Magistrate.

County [or borough] To constable of the police force of of to wit. and to all other peace officers in the said county [or borough] of

Whereas late of accused [or alleged to be convicted of] the commission of the crime of has been apprehended and brought before the undersigned, one of Her Majesty's justices of the peace in and for the said county [or borough] of Act, 1870," he is required to be brought before the chief magistrate of the metropolitan police court, or one of the police magistrates of the metropolis sitting at Bow Street, within the metropolitan police district [or the stipendiary magistrate for ]: This is therefore to command you the said constable in Her Majesty's name forthwith to take and convey the said to the metropolitan police district [or the said ] and there carry him before the said chief magistrate or one of the police magistrates of the metropolis sitting at Bow Street within the said district [or before a stipendiary magistrate sitting in the said ] to show cause why he should not be surrendered in pursuance of "The Extradition Act, 1870," and otherwise to be dealt with in accordance with law, for which this shall be your warrant.

Given under my hand and seal at this day of in the county [or borough] aforesaid, 18 J. P.
Form of Warrant of Committal.

Metropolitan police district [or the county or borough of ] To one of the constables of the metropolitan police force, [or of the police force of the county or borough of ], and to the keeper of

Be it remembered, that on this day of in the year of our Lord late of is brought before me the chief magistrate of the metropolitan police courts [or one of the police magistrates of the metropolis] sitting at the police court in Bow Street, within the metropolitan police district, [or a stipendiary magistrate for ,] to show cause why he should not be surrendered in pursuance of "The Extradition Act, 1870," on the ground of his being accused [or convicted] of the commission of the crime of within the jurisdiction of , and forasmuch as no sufficient cause has been shown to me why he should not be surrendered in pursuance of the said Act:

This is therefore to command you the said constable in Her Majesty's name forthwith to convey and deliver the body of the said into the custody of the said keeper of the custody, and him there safely to keep until he is thence delivered pursuant to the provisions of the said Extradition Act, for which this shall be your warrant.

Given under my hand and seal at Bow Street, one of the police courts of the metropolis, [or at the said ] this day of 18 .

J. P.

Form of Warrant of Secretary of State for Surrender of Fugitive.

To the keeper of and to

Whereas late of accused [or convicted] of the commission of the crime of within the jurisdiction of the keeper of by warrant dated pursuant to "The Extradition Act, 1870."

Now I do hereby, in pursuance of the said Act, order you the said keeper to deliver the body of the said into the custody of the said , and I command you the said to receive the said into your custody, and to convey him within the jurisdiction of the said , and there place him in the custody of any person or persons appointed by the said to receive him, for which this shall be your warrant.

Given under the hand and seal of the undersigned, one of Her Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State, this day of

THIRD SCHEDULE.

| Year and Chapter | Title |
|------------------|-------|
| 6 & 7 Vict. c. 75. | An Act for giving effect to a convention between Her Majesty and the King of the French for the apprehension of certain offenders. |
| 6 & 7 Vict. c. 76. | An Act for giving effect to a treaty between Her Majesty and the United States of America for the apprehension of certain offenders. |
| 8 & 9 Vict. c. 120. | An Act for facilitating execution of the treaties with France and the United States of America for the apprehension of certain offenders. |
| 25 & 26 Vict. c. 70. | An Act for giving effect to a convention between Her Majesty and the King of Denmark for the mutual surrender of criminals. |
| 29 & 30 Vict. c. 121. | An Act for the amendment of the law relating to treaties of extradition. |

36 & 37 VICT. CAP. LX.

An Act to amend the Extradition Act, 1870. [5th August, 1873.]

Be it enacted by the Queen's Most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:

1. This Act shall be construed as one with the Extradition Act, 1870 (in this Act referred to as the principal Act), and the principal Act and this Act may be cited together as the Extradition Acts, 1870 and 1873, and this Act may be cited alone as the Extradition Act, 1873.

2. Whereas by section six of the principal Act it is enacted as follows:

"Where this Act applies in the case of any foreign state, every fugitive criminal of that state who is in or suspected of being in any part of Her Majesty's dominions, or that part which is specified in the order applying this Act (as the case may be), shall be liable to be apprehended and surrendered in manner provided by this Act, whether the crime in respect of which the surrender is sought was committed before or after the date of the order, and whether there is or is not any concurrent jurisdiction in any Court of Her Majesty's dominions over that crime."

And whereas doubts have arisen as to the application of the said section to crimes committed before
the passing of the principal Act, and it is expedient to remove such doubts, it is therefore hereby declared that—

A crime committed before the date of the order includes in the said section a crime committed before the passing of the principal Act, and the principal Act and this Act shall be construed accordingly.

3. Whereas a person who is accessory before or after the fact, or counsels, procures, commands, aids, or abets the commission of any indictable offence, is by English law liable to be tried and punished as if he were the principal offender, but doubts have arisen whether such person as well as the principal offender can be surrendered under the principal Act, and it is expedient to remove such doubts; it is therefore hereby declared that—

Every person who is accused or convicted of having counselled, procured, commanded, aided, or abetted the commission of any extradition crime, or of being accessory before or after the fact to any extradition crime, shall be deemed for the purposes of the principal Act and this Act to be accused or convicted of having committed such crime, and shall be liable to be apprehended and surrendered accordingly.

4. Be it declared, that the provisions of the principal Act relating to depositions and statements on oath taken in a foreign state, and copies of such original depositions and statements, do and shall extend to affirmations taken in a foreign state, and copies of such affirmations.

5. A Secretary of State may, by order under his hand and seal, require a police magistrate or a justice of the peace to take evidence for the purposes of any criminal matter pending in any court or tribunal in any foreign state; and the police magistrate or justice of the peace, upon the receipt of such order, shall take the evidence of every witness appearing before him for the purpose in like manner as if such witness appeared on a charge against some defendant for an indictable offence, and shall certify at the foot of the depositions so taken that such evidence was taken before him, and shall transmit the same to the Secretary of State; such evidence may be taken in the presence or absence of the person charged, if any, and the fact of such presence or absence shall be stated in such deposition.

Any person may, after payment or tender to him of a reasonable sum for his costs and expenses in this behalf, be compelled, for the purposes of this section, to attend and give evidence and answer questions and produce documents, in like manner and subject to the like conditions as he may in the case of a charge preferred for an indictable offence.

Every person who willfully gives false evidence before a police magistrate or justice of the peace under this section shall be guilty of perjury.

Provided that nothing in this section shall apply in the case of any criminal matter of a political character.

6. The jurisdiction conferred by section sixteen of the principal Act on a stipendiary magistrate, and a sheriff or sheriff substitute, shall be deemed to be in addition to, and not in derogation or exclusion of, the jurisdiction of the police magistrate.

7. For the purposes of the principal Act and this Act a diplomatic representative of a foreign state shall be deemed to include any person recognised by the Secretary of State as a consul-general of that state, and a consul or vice-consul shall be deemed to include any person recognized by the governor of a British possession as a consular officer of a foreign state.

8. The principal Act shall be construed as if there were included in the first schedule to that Act the list of crimes contained in the schedule to this Act.

SCHEDULE.

LIST OF CRIMES.

The following list of crimes is to be construed according to the law existing in England or in a British possession (as the case may be) at the date of the alleged crime, whether by common law or by statute made before or after the passing of this Act:

Kidnapping and false imprisonment.

Perjury, and subornation of perjury, whether under common or statute law.

Any indictable offence under the Larceny Act, 1861, or any Act amending or substituted for the same, which is not included in the first schedule to the principal Act.

Any indictable offence under the Act of the session of the twenty-fourth and twenty-fifth years of the reign of Her present Majesty, chapter ninety-seven, "To consolidate and amend the statute law of England and Ireland relating to malicious injuries to property," or any Act amending or substituted for the same, which is not included in the first schedule to the principal Act.

Any indictable offence under the Act of the session of the twenty-fourth and twenty-fifth years of the reign of Her present Majesty, chapter ninety-eight, "To consolidate and amend the statute law of England and Ireland, relating to indictable offences by forgery," or any Act amending or substituted for the same, which is not included in the first schedule to the principal Act.

Any indictable offence under the Act of the session of the twenty-fourth and twenty-fifth years of the reign of Her present Majesty, chapter ninety-nine, "To consolidate and amend the statute law of the United Kingdom against offences relating to the coin," or any Act amending or substituted for the same, which is not included in the first schedule to the principal Act.

Any indictable offence under the Act of the session of the twenty-fourth and twenty-fifth years of the reign of Her present Majesty, chapter one hundred, "To consolidate and amend the statute law of England and Ireland relating to offences against the person," or any Act amending or substituted for the same, which is not included in the first schedule to the principal Act.

Any indictable offence under the laws for the time being in force in relation to bankruptcy which is not included in the first schedule to the principal Act.
LOCAL AND IMPERIAL ACTS OF GENERAL IMPORTANCE.

THE COLONIAL RENDITION ACTS.

6 & 7 VICT., CAP. XXXIV.

An Act for the better Apprehension of certain offenders. [28th July 1843.]

WHEREAS it is expedient to make more effectual provision for the apprehension and trial of offenders against the laws who may be in other parts of Her Majesty's dominions than those in which their offences were committed: Be it enacted by the Queen's Most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, that from and after the passing of this Act, if any person charged with having committed any offence such as is hereinafter mentioned against the laws of any part of Her Majesty's dominions not being part of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, and against whom a warrant shall have been issued for such offence by any person having lawful authority to issue the same within that part of Her Majesty's dominions where such offence shall have been committed, shall be in any place within the said United Kingdom, it shall be lawful, in Great Britain, for one of Her Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State, and in Ireland, for the Chief Secretary of the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, to endorse his name on such warrant, which warrant so endorsed shall be a sufficient authority to the person or persons bringing such warrant, and to all persons to whom such warrant was originally directed, and also to all constables and other peace officers in that part of the United Kingdom where the said warrant shall be so endorsed, to execute the said warrant, by apprehending the person against whom such warrant is directed, and to convey the said person before a justice of the peace for the county or other jurisdiction in which the supposed offender shall be apprehended, or in Scotland either before such justice of the peace or before the sheriff depute or substitute.

II. And to remedy the like failure of justice by the escape of persons charged with having committed offences into those parts of Her Majesty's dominions which do not form part of the said United Kingdom, be it enacted, that from and after the passing of this Act, if any person charged with having committed any offence such as is hereinafter mentioned in any part of Her Majesty's dominions, whether or not within the said United Kingdom, and against whom a warrant shall be issued by any person or persons having lawful authority to issue the same, shall be in any other part of Her Majesty's dominions not forming part of the said United Kingdom, it shall be lawful for the Chief Justice or any other Judge of Her Majesty's superior court of law within that other part of Her Majesty's dominions where such person shall be to endorse his name on such warrant, which warrant so endorsed shall be a sufficient authority to the person or persons bringing such warrant, and also to all persons to whom such warrant was originally directed, and also to all peace officers of the place where the warrant shall be so endorsed, to execute the same within the jurisdiction of the person by whom it shall be so endorsed, by apprehending the person against whom such warrant is directed, and to convey him before a magistrate or other person having authority to examine and commit offenders for trial in that part of Her Majesty's dominions.

III. And be it enacted, that it shall be lawful for any person duly authorised to examine and commit offenders for trial before whom any such supposed offender shall be brought as aforesaid, upon such evidence of criminality as would justify his committal if the offence had been committed in that part of Her Majesty's dominions, to commit such supposed offender to prison, there to remain until he can be sent back, in manner hereinafter mentioned, to that part of Her Majesty's dominions in which he is charged with having committed such offence; and immediately upon the committal of such person information thereof in writing under the hand of the committing magistrate, accompanied by a copy of the said warrant, shall be given, in Great Britain, to one of Her Majesty's principal Secretaries of State, and in Ireland to the Chief Secretary of the Lord Lieutenant, and in any other part of Her Majesty's dominions to the governor or acting governor.

IV. Provided always, and be it enacted, that in every such case copies of the depositions upon which the original warrant was granted, certified under the hand of the person or persons issuing such warrant, and attested upon the oath of the party producing them to be true copies of the original depositions, may be received in evidence of the criminality of the person so apprehended.

V. And be it enacted, that it shall be lawful, in Great Britain, for any one of Her Majesty's principal Secretaries of State, and in Ireland for the Chief Secretary of the Lord Lieutenant, and in any other part of Her Majesty's dominions for the governor or acting governor, by warrant under his hand and seal, to order any person who shall have been so apprehended and committed to gaol to be delivered into the custody of some person or persons, to be named in the said warrant, for the purpose of being conveyed into that part of Her Majesty's dominions in which he is charged with having committed the offence, and being delivered into the custody of the proper authorities there, to be dealt with in due course of law as if he had been there apprehended, and to order that the person so committed to gaol be so conveyed accordingly; and if the said person, after he shall have been so apprehended, shall escape out of any custody to which he shall have been committed as aforesaid, it shall be lawful to retake such person, in the same manner as any person accused of any crime against the laws of that part of Her Majesty's dominions may be retaken upon an escape.

VI. And be it enacted, that where any person who shall have been committed to gaol under this Act shall not be conveyed out of that part of Her Majesty's dominions in which he shall have been so committed to gaol within two calendar months after such committal, over and above the time actually required to convey the prisoner from the gaol to which he was committed by the readiest way out of that part of Her Majesty's dominions, it shall be lawful for any of Her Majesty's judges in that part of Her Majesty's dominions in which such supposed offender shall be in custody, upon application made to him or them by or on behalf of the person so committed, and upon proof made to him or them that reasonable notice of the intention to make such application has been given to one of Her Majesty's principal Secretaries of State in Great Britain, or in Ireland to the Chief Secretary of the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, or to the governor or acting governor in any other part of Her Majesty's dominions, to order
the person so committed to be discharged out of custody, unless sufficient cause shall be shown to such judge or judges why such discharge ought not to be ordered.

VII. And be it enacted, that in case any person apprehended under this Act shall not be indicted for the offence for which he shall have been so apprehended within the period of six calendar months after his arrival in that part of Her Majesty's dominions in which he is charged to have committed the offence, or if upon his trial he shall be acquitted, it shall be lawful, in Great Britain, for one of Her Majesty's principal Secretaries of State, and in Ireland for the Chief Secretary of the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, and for the governor or acting governor in any other part of Her Majesty's dominions, if he shall think fit, upon the request of the person so apprehended, to cause such person to be sent back, free of cost to such person, and with as little delay as possible, to that part of Her Majesty's dominions in which he shall have been so apprehended.

VIII. And be it enacted, that the court before which any person apprehended under this Act shall be prosecuted or tried within the said United Kingdom may order, if it shall think fit, that the expenses of apprehending and removing the prisoner from any part of Her Majesty's dominions not within the said United Kingdom to any place within the said United Kingdom shall be repaid to the person defraying the same, by the treasurer of the county or other jurisdiction in England or Ireland, or by the sheriff depute or substitute of the county in Scotland, in which the offence is charged to have been committed, the amount of such expenses being previously ascertained by an account thereof, verified by production of proper vouchers, before two justices of the peace of such county or other jurisdiction, which last-mentioned justices shall examine into the correctness of the said account, and shall allow the same, or such part thereof as shall to them appear just and reasonable, under their hands and seals; and every treasurer or sheriff depute or substitute who shall pay the amount so ascertained, shall be allowed such payment in his accounts respecting the business of such county or other jurisdiction.

IX. Provided always, and be it enacted, that it shall not be lawful for any person to endorse his name on any such warrant, for the purpose of authorising the apprehension of any person under this Act, until it shall have been proved to him, upon oath or by affidavit, that the seal or signature upon the same is the seal or signature of the person having lawful authority to issue such warrant whose seal or signature the same purports to be.

X. Provided also, and be it enacted, that it shall not be lawful for any person to endorse his name upon any such warrant, for the purpose of authorising the apprehension of any person under this Act, unless it shall appear upon the face of the said warrant that the offence which the person for whose apprehension the said warrant has been issued is charged to have committed is such that, if committed, within that part of Her Majesty's dominions where the warrant is so endorsed, it would have amounted in law to a treason, or some felony [such as the justices of the peace in general or quarter sessions assembled have not authority to try in England under the provisions of an Act passed in the sixth year of the reign of Her Majesty, intituled "An Act to define the Jurisdiction of Justices in General and Quarter Sessions of the Peace"—repealed, infra], or unless the depositions appear sufficient to warrant the committal of such person for trial.

XI. And be it enacted, that this Act may be amended or repealed by any Act to be passed in this session of Parliament.

16 & 17 VICT., CAP. CXVIII.

An Act to amend an Act of the Seventh Year of Her Majesty for the better Apprehension of certain Offenders.

[20th August, 1835.]

Whereas by an Act passed in the session holden in the sixth and seventh years of Her Majesty (chapter thirty-four) "for the better apprehension of certain offenders," it is provided, that it shall not be lawful for any person to endorse his name upon any such warrant as therein mentioned, for the purpose of authorising the apprehension of any person under that Act, unless it shall appear upon the face of the said warrant that the offence which the person for whose apprehension the said warrant has been issued is charged to have committed is such that, if committed within that part of Her Majesty's dominions where the warrant is so endorsed, it would have amounted in law to a treason, or some felony such as the Justices of the Peace in general or quarter sessions assembled have not authority to try in England under the provisions of an Act passed in the sixth year of Her Majesty, intituled "An Act to define the Jurisdiction of Justices in General and Quarter Sessions of the Peace," or unless the depositions appear sufficient to warrant the committal of such person for trial. And whereas it is expedient that the provisions of the said Act should be extended to persons charged with any felony: Be it therefore enacted by the Queen's Most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords spiritual and temporal, and Commons in this present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, that the recited enactment shall hereafter be read and construed as if the words "such as the justices of the peace in general or quarter sessions assembled have not authority to try in England under the provisions of an Act passed in the sixth year of the reign of Her Majesty, intituled 'An Act to define the Jurisdiction of Justices in General and Quarter Sessions of the Peace,'" had been omitted therein.
PART V.

PENSIONS.

This Part of the Colonial Office List includes the text of the Imperial Superannuation Acts (other than the Imperial Pensions Commutation Acts)*, and the Minutes and Circulars issued under them, the Governors' Pensions Acts, and a succinct statement of the pension laws, rules, or practice obtaining in those colonies (other than responsible Government Colonies) which usually grant superannuation allowances to their servants.—Ed. C. O. LIST.

IMPERIAL PENSION ACTS.

4 & 5 WILL., CAP. XXIV.

An Act to alter, amend, and consolidate the Laws for regulating the Pensions, Compensations, and Allowances to be made to Persons in respect of their having held Civil Offices in His Majesty's service.

[Sections I. to V. and VII. of this Act are repealed by 32 & 33 Vic. c. 60, which see at pages 201-202. Section VI. is printed as a foot-note at page 202.—Ed. C. O. LIST.]

VIII. And be it further enacted, that from and after the passing of this Act, an Act made in the fiftieth year of the reign of His late Majesty King George the Third, to direct that accounts of increase and diminution of public salaries, pensions, and allowances shall be annually laid before Parliament, and to regulate and control the granting and payment of such salaries, pensions, and allowances; and two several Acts passed in the fifty-first year of the reign of His said late Majesty and in the third year of His late Majesty King George the Fourth, severally to amend the said Act of the fiftieth year of the reign of King George the Third; and also an Act passed in the fifth year of the reign of His said late Majesty King George the Fourth, to amend the said Act of the third year of His said Majesty's reign; and so much of an Act passed in the sixth year of the reign of His said late Majesty, to regulate the payment of salaries and allowances to British Consuls, as respects the allowance to be made to such Consuls in the nature of superannuation or reward for meritorious public services, shall be and the same are hereby repealed, except so far as relates to any matter or thing already done under the said Acts or either of them.

IX. And be it further enacted, that from and after the passing of this Act the superannuation allowances to be granted to such officers and clerks who shall have entered the public service prior to the 5th day of August, 1829 (except only as hereinafter is authorized) shall not exceed the following proportions with reference to the amount of their salaries and the periods of their services respectively; (vide locit).

To an officer, clerk, or person who shall have served ten years and upwards, and under fifteen years, any annual allowance not exceeding in amount four-twelfths of the annual salary and emoluments of his office;

For fifteen years and upwards, and under twenty years, not exceeding five-twelfths of such salary and emoluments:

For twenty years and upwards, and under twenty-five years, not exceeding six-twelfths of such salary and emoluments:

For twenty-five years and upwards, and under thirty years, not exceeding seven-twelfths of such salary and emoluments:

For thirty years and upwards, and under thirty-five years, not exceeding eight-twelfths of such salary and emoluments:

For thirty-five years and upwards, and under forty years, not exceeding nine-twelfths of such salary and emoluments:

For forty years and upwards, and under forty-five years, not exceeding ten-twelfths of such salary and emoluments:

For forty-five years and upwards, and under fifty years, not exceeding eleven-twelfths of such salary and emoluments:

And for fifty years or upwards, any annual allowance not exceeding the net amount of the salary and emoluments of his office.

X. And be it further enacted, that from and after the passing of this Act it shall not be lawful to grant to any officer or clerk who shall have entered the public service subsequent to the 4th day of August, 1829, except as hereinafter authorized, any superannuation or allowance exceeding the following proportions with reference to the amount of their salaries and the periods of their services respectively; (vide locit).

To an officer, clerk, or person who shall have served ten years and upwards, and under seventeen years, any annual allowance not exceeding in amount three-twelfths of the salary and emoluments of his office;

For seventeen years' service and upwards, and under twenty-four years, not exceeding four-twelfths of such salary and emoluments:

For twenty-four years' service and upwards, and under thirty-one years, not exceeding five-twelfths of such salary and emoluments:

For thirty-one years and upwards, and under thirty-eight years, not exceeding six-twelfths of such salary and emoluments:

For thirty-eight years and upwards, and under forty-five years, not exceeding seven-twelfths of such salary and emoluments:

* These Acts are 32 & 33 Vic., c. 32, 33 & 34 Vic., c. 101, 34 & 35 Vic., c. 36, 39 & 40 Vic., c. 73.—Ed. C. O. LIST.
And for forty-five years and upwards, not exceeding eight-twelfths of such salary and emoluments: And in no case, except as hereinafter is especially provided, shall any superannuation or allowance exceeding two-thirds of the salary and emoluments of any such officer, clerk, or person be granted.

XI. And it be further enacted, that from and after the passing of this Act it shall not be lawful to grant any superannuation allowance to any officer or clerk who shall be under sixty-five years of age, unless upon certificates from the heads of the department to which such officer or clerk shall belong, and from two medical practitioners, that he is incapable from infirmity of mind or body to discharge the duties of his situation, nor unless he shall have discharged those duties with diligence and fidelity to the satisfaction of the head officer or officers of his department, which shall be certified by any two of such head officers if there shall be more than one, or by such head officer if there be but one; and in case the person claiming such superannuation allowance shall himself be the head officer, or one of the head officers, then such superannuation allowance shall not be granted unless he shall have discharged the duties of his situation with diligence and fidelity to the satisfaction of the Commissioners of the Admiralty, if such head officer shall hold any office or situation under the control of that department, and in all other cases to the satisfaction of the Commissioners of the Treasury; and the said Commissioners of the Admiralty and Treasury respectively shall express such satisfaction in their minute recommending or authorizing the grant of any such superannuation allowance.

XII. Provided always, and be it further enacted, that the superannuation allowance to be granted to any officer or person after the passing of this Act shall not be computed upon the amount of the salary enjoyed by him at the time of his retirement, unless he shall have been in the receipt of the same, or in the class from which he retires, for a period of at least three years immediately before the granting of such superannuation allowance; and in case he shall not have enjoyed his then existing salary (or have been in such class) for that period, such superannuation allowance shall be calculated upon the average amount of salary received by such person for three years next preceding the commencement of such allowance.

XIII. And be it further enacted, that all compensations and allowances granted or hereafter under this Act to be granted as pensions or superannuations shall be paid to the persons entitled to receive the same without any abatement or deduction in respect of any taxes or duties whatever at present existing.

XIV. And be it further enacted, that the superannuation allowances authorized by this Act shall extend to all such civil offices and departments as are set forth and enumerated in the schedule to this Act, with such exceptions as are specified in the said schedule: provided always, that it shall be lawful for the Commissioners of His Majesty's Treasury, by any order or warrant under the hands of any three or more of them, to add to the list of offices and departments enumerated in the said schedule any other offices or departments which now exist or may hereafter be created or established, and to place the same, and the officers and persons employed therein, under the provisions of this Act, in every which order or warrant the reasons for adding any such office or department shall be stated, and a copy of every such order or warrant shall be laid before Parliament within one month after the making thereof, if Parliament shall be then sitting, and if not, then within one month after the then next sitting of Parliament; and all the provisions of this Act, and all the powers, authorities, regulations, restrictions, and clauses therein contained, shall in every such case apply and be put in force with respect to every office or department which shall be so added as aforesaid, as fully and effectually, to all intents and purposes, as if they had been originally specified and enumerated in the said schedule.

XV. Provided always, and be it further enacted, that nothing in this Act contained shall extend or be construed to extend to or authorize the adding to such list any offices held under military or naval commissions entitling the holders of the same to half-pay, or any military or naval allowance in lieu of or in addition to half-pay allowed under the regulation of any order of His Majesty in Council to any persons for services in His Majesty's army, navy, or ordnance, or any offices in any of His Majesty's Courts at Westminster or Dublin, or any other His Majesty's Courts of Justice elsewhere, or the Comptroller of His Majesty's Exchequer, or any offices in relation to which the granting of any allowances for past services has been specially regulated by any Act, or any offices held as sinecures, or executed principally by deputy.

XVI. And be it further enacted, that no compensation hereafter to be made or superannuation allowance to be granted in respect of civil services to any person entitled to half-pay in the army, ordnance, navy, or marines, who shall have been appointed to the Civil Service subsequently to the fourth day of August One thousand eight hundred and twenty-nine, shall in any case, except as in this Act is specially provided, exceed in the whole (computing his half-pay in such compensation or allowance) the amount of two-thirds of the salary and emoluments of the office relinquished by him; provided always, that nothing in this Act contained shall extend or be construed to extend to entitle any superintendent of a dockyard or other establishment in the Civil Department of the Navy, who shall have held any civil appointment prior to the fifth day of August One thousand eight hundred and twenty-nine, to any superannuation allowance under this Act beyond the amount stipulated by the terms on which he shall have accepted the office of superintendent, or the amount established by any Order of His Majesty in Council concerning superintendents.

XVII. Provided always, and be it further enacted, that in any case in which it shall appear to the Commissioners of His Majesty's Treasury that any special circumstances afford to any officer or clerk in the several offices or departments mentioned in the schedule to this Act, or in the addition authorized to be made thereto, who is not within the exceptions therein contained, a just claim to an amount of superannuation allowance not authorized by this Act, or exceeding the amount therein specified with reference to the length of his service, it shall be lawful for the Commissioners of His Majesty's Treasury to grant or give authority for granting any special superannuation which such officer or clerk shall appear to them to deserve; but in every such case the grounds on which such special superannuation shall be granted or authorized shall be stated in the grant thereof, or in the authority for granting the same, and also entered in the Minutes of the Treasury, and shall likewise be laid before Parliament within one month after the fifth day of January in each year, if Parliament be sitting during that period, or if not, then within one month after the ensuing meeting of Parliament.

XVIII. And be it further enacted, that no compensation for any office abolished, nor any special
allowance or remuneration for good services to any person holding or having held any civil office in any public department, shall be charged upon the incidents or any other fund of any such department; and that no such compensation, nor any allowance or compensation in the nature of superannuation or retired allowance or reward to any such person in respect of his having held any public office or employment, or having been engaged in any public service, shall be granted, allowed, or paid, other than under the authority of an Order of His Majesty in Council, or by the Commissioners of His Majesty's Treasury, or any three or more of them.

XIX. And be it further enacted and provided, that every person to whom any compensation or allowance, in consequence of the abolition or reduction of office, shall hereafter be granted, shall at all times, when called upon, be liable to fill, in any part of His Majesty's dominions in which he shall have already served, any public office or situation under the Crown for which his previous public services may render him eligible, and that if he shall decline, when called upon so to do, to take upon himself such office or situation, and execute the duties thereof satisfactorily, being in a competent state of health, he shall forfeit his right to any compensation or allowance which may have been granted to him in respect of any former services.

XX. Provided always, and be it further enacted, that in case any person enjoying any superannuation allowance, in consequence of retiring from office on account of age, infirmity, or any other cause, or enjoying any compensation for past services upon the abolition or reduction of office, shall be appointed to fill any office in any public department, every such allowance or compensation shall cease to be paid for any period subsequent to such appointment if the annual amount of the profits of the office to which he shall be appointed shall be equal to those of the office formerly held by him, and in case they shall not be equal to those of his former office, then no more of such superannuation allowance or compensation shall be paid to him than what with the salary of his new appointment shall be equal to that of his former office.

XXI. Provided always, and be it further enacted, that nothing herein contained with respect to compensation, superannuation, or allowance for civil services shall extend or be construed to extend to any military or naval half-pay, or allowance in lieu of half-pay, or to any military or naval allowance or pensions granted or to be granted under the regulations of any Order of His Majesty in Council, in any of the respective departments of the Commissioners of the Admiralty, the Secretary at War, and the Master General of the Ordnance, except as hereinafter is provided with respect to the same.

XXII. And be it further enacted, that between the first day of February and the twenty-fifth day of March in every year, or if Parliament shall not be sitting during any part of that period, then within twenty days after the next meeting of Parliament there shall be laid before both Houses of Parliament an account of every increase and diminution which shall have taken place within the preceding year, ending on the thirty-first day of December, in the number of persons employed in all public offices of departments under the Crown, and in the salaries, emoluments, allowances, and expenses which shall have taken place or been paid, granted, received, or incurred for and in respect of all officers and persons belonging to or employed in all such public offices or departments, specifying the amount and nature thereof, and distinguishing every increase and diminution in the amount of all allowances of compensations granted as retired allowances or superannuations to any person having held any office, place, or employment in any such public office or department, and also the time and length of service of every such persons, and the amount of the salary and emoluments received by such person immediately preceding his superannuation or retirement, and the nature of his services, and the grounds upon which such increase or diminution in the establishment of every such public office or department, or of any such salary, emolument, allowance, compensation, or superannuation shall have been granted or made; and also specifying the name of every person receiving such allowance or compensation who may have died in the course of the year, together with the amount of the annual allowance payable to such person.

XXIII. Provided always, and be it further enacted, that accounts of all compensations for offices abolished, and of all allowances in the nature of superannuation or retired allowances to all other persons in respect of their having held any public office or employment under the Crown, shall annually, at the period lastly provided, be laid before the Commons House of Parliament.

XXIV. And whereas the scale of allowance under this Act specifies the highest rate which a superannuated officer can receive unless his case be specially laid before Parliament: and whereas it is expedient that the Lords of His Majesty's Treasury and the Lords of the Admiralty for the time being respectively should consider the health, age, meritorious conduct, and other circumstances of each party applying for a superannuation allowance, in order to exercise their discretion in fixing the amount of such allowance, subject always to the limitation prescribed by this Act: and whereas it is expedient that Parliament should be made acquainted with the manner in which such discretion shall be exercised: be it therefore enacted, that all Orders of His Majesty in Council, and Minutes of the Lords of the Treasury, which shall at any time be framed or passed laying down any general rule or regulation respecting the granting of superannuation allowances, shall, within one month of the date thereof, if Parliament should then be sitting, or if not, then within one month after the commencement of the next ensuing session of Parliament, be laid before the two Houses of Parliament respectively.

XXV. Provided always, and be it further enacted, that all half-pay and allowances in lieu of half-pay in the several departments of the army, ordnance, navy, and marines, and all military and naval allowances or pensions granted or which shall be granted in any of such departments under the authority of any Order in Council, shall be annually laid before the Commons House of Parliament, in separate estimates, at the same time with the ordinary estimates of those respective departments, and shall be kept distinct from all pensions, compensations, superannuation, and retired allowances in any of the civil offices of those departments respectively.

XXVI. And be it further enacted, that the compensations, superannuations, and allowances authorized as well by this as any former Act or Acts shall, when not specially provided for by Parliament, be charged upon and paid and payable by the respective departments or offices in which the persons receiving such allowances shall have served.

XVII. And whereas the Commissioners of the Treasury did, by a Minute dated the fourth day of
August One thousand eight hundred and twenty-nine, record their intention to adopt certain regulations with a view to reduce prospectively the charge incurred in providing for superannuation allowances, of which notice was given in the several public departments for the information of those who should thereafter enter the public service: and whereas in pursuance of the said Minute an annual abatement hath been made from the salaries and emoluments of the several persons who have entered the public service subsequent to the date thereof: and whereas it is expedient to continue such abatement in those cases, and to extend it to others as hereinafter provided: be it therefore further enacted that from and after the passing of this Act there shall be an annual abatement made, in quarterly proportions, by the proper officer in each respective department, from the salaries and emoluments of the several officers and persons employed in the several civil offices and departments specified in the schedule to this Act, or to be specified in the addition authorized to be made thereto, and not within the exceptions thereof, who have since the date of the said Minute entered or shall hereafter enter the public service, in such manner and under such directions as shall from time to time be given in this respect by the Commissioners of the Treasury or of the Admiralty, as the case may be; the amount of which abatement shall be according to the respective rates following (that is to say):

From salaries and emoluments not exceeding the annual sum of one hundred pounds, an abatement after the rate of two pounds ten shillings per centum;

And from salaries and emoluments exceeding one hundred pounds, five pounds per centum:

And in the cases of all persons whomsoever at present holding office and entitled to superannuation allowance under this Act, who shall have been appointed to such office subsequently to the issue of the Minute of the Lords Commissioners of His Majesty's Treasury, bearing date the fourth day of August One thousand eight hundred and twenty-nine, for the future regulation of the several civil departments of the public service, and who shall hereafter, upon promotion, obtain any increase of salary or allowances in respect of their offices, an annual abatement, after the like rates respectively, shall be made from the amount of such increase from time to time, commencing from the period when the same shall take place.

XXVIII. And be it further enacted, that it shall be lawful for the person or persons at the head of any department in which any fees or other sources of profit may form part of the emoluments of any office in such department, to fix, with the approbation of the Commissioners of His Majesty's Treasury, or for the Commissioners of the Admiralty if the office shall be in that department, an average sum upon which the compensation or superannuation allowance shall be granted, as well as the sum to be annually abated, as hereinbefore provided, from such person's salary, in respect of such emoluments, which sum so to be fixed shall not exceed the average amount of such emoluments for the three last preceding years.

XXIX. And be it further enacted, that the Vice Treasurer of Ireland shall at all times, when required so to do by the Commissioners of His Majesty's Treasury, transmit to the said Commissioners accounts of the execution of this Act, and of all matters and things relating thereto, in his execution of the powers thereof, in such manner and form, and containing such particulars, as he shall in that behalf be from time to time directed.

XXX. Provided always, and be it further enacted, that nothing in this Act contained shall extend or be construed to extend to give any person an absolute right to compensation for past services, or to any superannuation or retiring allowance under this Act, or to deprive the Commissioners of His Majesty's Treasury, and the heads or principal officers of the respective departments, of their power and authority to dismiss any person from the public service without compensation.

XXXI. And be it further enacted, that this Act may be amended, altered, or repealed by any Act or Acts to be passed in this present session of Parliament.

SCHEDULE referred to in the foregoing Act (Sec. XIV.).

| OFFICES OR DEPARTMENTS. | EXCEPTIONS.* |
|--------------------------|--------------|
| Treasury                 | Lords of the Treasury and joint Secretaries. |
| Office of Vice Treasury in Ireland. | President of the Council. |
| Office of Privy Council, Great Britain and Ireland | President and Vice President. |
| Office of Committee for Trade | Secretaries and Under Secretaries. |
| Offices of Secretaries of State | Chief Secretary, the Parliamentary Council for Irish Affairs. |
| Office of Secretary for Ireland | Commander-in-Chief, and his Secretary, and Officers acting under Military Commissions. |
| Aliens Office. | Secretary-at-War. |
| Consuls General and Consuls restricted from being engaged in Trade. | Officers acting under Military Commissions. |
| State Paper Office. | Judge Advocate General. |
| Office of Registrar of Slaves. | Paymaster-General. |
| Police Offices in London and Middlesex and Borough of Southwark. | |
| Commander of the Forces Office, England and Ireland | |
| Quartermaster-General's Office, ditto | |
| Adjutant-General's Office, ditto | |
| War Office | |
| Army Medical Board. | |
| Board of General Officers | |
| Chaplain General's Office. | |
| Judge Advocate General's Office | |
| Army Pay Office | |

* As to these exceptions see 32 & 33 Vic., c. 60.
### OFFICES OR DEPARTMENTS

- **Ordnance Office**
- **Chelsea and Kilmainham Hospitals**
- **Royal Military College**
- **Royal Military Asylum**
- **Admiralty and Naval Establishments at Home and Abroad**
  - Navy Pay Office
  - Tax Office and Stamp Office
  - Customs
  - Excise
  - Post Office
  - Royal Mint
  - Audit Office
  - Comptrollers of Army Accounts
  - National Debt Office
  - Office of Comptroller of the Exchequer
  - Exchequer Bill Office
  - Stationery Office
  - Office of Woods, Forests, Works, &c.
  - King's Remembrancer's Office in the Exchequer of Scotland
  - Office of Auditor of the Exchequer of Scotland
  - Signet and Privy Seal Offices, Scotland
  - British and Irish Fishery
  - Office of Teller of the Exchequer
  - Commissariat
  - Hibernian School for Soldiers' Children
  - Board of Education
  - Privy Seal Office
  - Board of Charitable Donations and Bequests
  - Registrar of Deeds

### EXCEPTIONS

- Master General
- Clerk of the Ordnance
- Surveyor-General
- Principal Storekeeper
- Secretary to Master-General, and all persons holding their situations by Military Commission
- Treasurer of the Ordnance
- Persons who, being Military Officers, may be entitled to full or half-pay as such, subject, however, to the provisions of this Act
- Lords of the Admiralty and Secretaries
- Superintendents of Dockyards and Victualling Yards, and Naval Medical Establishments or Hospitals, not having been employed in the Civil Service of the Navy prior to the fifth day of August one thousand eight hundred and twenty nine, and Officers acting by virtue of Naval or Military Commissions of Warrants, and entitled to half-pay
- The Treasurer
- The Postmaster-General
- The Master of the Mint
- The Comptroller-General
- First Commissioner
- Auditor

### IRELAND

- The Teller
- Persons holding Commissions entitling them to half-pay, subject, however, to the provisions of this Act

---

**32 & 33 VICT., CAP. LX.**

An Act to alter and amend the Acts enabling Her Majesty to grant Pensions to Persons having held certain high Civil Offices.

[9th August, 1869.]

Whereas it is expedient to amend the law relating to pensions to be granted to persons who have held offices in the civil service of the Crown which are usually held by members of the House of Lords or the House of Commons, and which offices are hereinafter referred to as political offices; Be it enacted by the Queen's Most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

1. This Act, with the exception of the reservation hereinafter contained, shall not apply to any office in the permanent civil service of the Crown or in Her Majesty's household, or to any legal office, other than the office of Judge Advocate General.

2. Political offices shall for the purposes of this Act be divided into three classes; viz.—

   Class 1. Containing the office of the First Lord of the Admiralty and all other political offices remunerated with a yearly salary of not less than five thousand pounds;

   Class 2. Containing all such offices remunerated with a yearly salary of less than five thousand pounds and not less than two thousand pounds;

   Class 3. Containing all such offices remunerated with a yearly salary of less than two thousand pounds and more than one thousand pounds.

3. Subject to the provisions of this Act Her Majesty may, if She shall think fit, by warrant under her royal sign manual, countersigned by two or more Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury, grant to any person in respect of his services, whether before or after the passing of this Act, in any office included in any of the above classes, a pension during life according to the following scale, viz.
1st. A first-class pension, not exceeding two thousand pounds a year, in respect of a service of not less than four years, or its equivalent, in an office of the first class.

2nd. A second-class pension, not exceeding one thousand two hundred pounds a year, in respect of a service of not less than six years, or its equivalent, in an office of the second class.

3rd. A third-class pension, not exceeding eight hundred pounds a year, in respect of a service of not less than ten years in an office of the third class.

4. For the purposes of this Act, service for any time in an office of the third class shall count as service for one-half of that time in an office of the second class; and service for any time in an office of the second class shall count as service for one-half of that time in an office of the first class; but no person shall be entitled to a first-class pension who has not actually served two years in an office of the first class, nor to a second-class pension who has not actually served three years in an office of the second class. Any person who, having served for three years in a lower class, has afterwards served in a higher class for such time as would, if the service had been in the lower class, have entitled him to a pension in the lower class, shall be entitled to reckon the whole of his service as if it had been passed in the lower class.

The time of service in political offices may for the purposes of this Act be continuous or at different times and in different offices of the above classes; but no pension under this Act shall be granted in any class while four pensions of that class are subsisting; nor shall more than one pension under this Act be granted in the same year: Provided that no office hereafter created shall be entitled to rank as one of the political offices within the meaning of this Act, unless such office shall have been created by Act of Parliament, nor shall in future any addition to the salary of any political office now existing, or hereafter to be created, made otherwise than under the authority of an Act of Parliament, entitle such office to rank in any higher class than that in which it would have ranked without such addition.

5. Pensions in respect of service in offices the salary of which is paid out of the revenues of India shall be paid out of those revenues.

6. Where a person receiving a pension under this Act was at the time of his application for such pension, or is afterwards, entitled to any emolument (including in the term any salary, compensation, superannuation allowance or pension) which is payable out of any monies raised by taxation or out of other public revenue in any part of Her Majesty's dominions, or is received by way of fees or otherwise in respect of his holding any public office or employment in any part of Her Majesty's dominions, the payment of the pension under this Act shall, so long as he receives such emolument, if the amount thereof is greater than or equal to the pension under this Act, be suspended, and if less be diminished by the amount of such emolument; and if any person is at the time of his application for or while receiving a pension under this Act entitled to any such emolument, he shall forthwith deliver to the Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury a declaration under his hand stating the nature and amount thereof.

7. Section six of the Act of the session of the fourth and fifth years of the reign of King William the Fourth, chapter twenty-four, shall apply to pensions under this Act in the same manner as if they had been granted under the provisions of the said Act.*

8. Every pension, not being chargeable on the revenues of India, granted under this Act shall be issued and payable out of and charged and chargeable upon the Consolidated Fund of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland next in order of payment to and after paying or reserving sufficient to pay all such sums of money as have been directed to be paid by any former Act or Acts, but with preference to all other payments hereafter to be charged thereon as aforesaid, and the same shall from time to time be paid and payable quarterly.

9. The Acts specified in the schedule to this Act are hereby repealed to the extant in the schedule mentioned:

Provided that—

(1.) This repeal shall not affect any pensions which have been granted under any of the said Acts before the passing of this Act and are still in force, and those Acts shall apply to such pensions as if this Act had not passed.

(2.) Where a person is qualified by service before the passing of this Act to receive a pension under any of the said Acts, it shall be lawful for Her Majesty to grant a pension to such person in pursuance of those Acts; and those Acts shall apply, in the case of such pension, in the same manner as if this Act had not passed.

(3.) Where a person who is in the permanent civil service of the state is qualified by service before the passing of this Act to receive a pension under any of the said Acts, or would but for this repeal have become so qualified by service partly before and partly after the passing of this Act, then either—

(a) Such person may claim a superannuation allowance under the Superannuation Act, 1859:

Or,

(b) Such person may claim, and Her Majesty may grant to him, a pension under the provisions of the said Acts; and those Acts shall apply, in the case of such pension, in the same manner as if this Act had not passed.

10. This Act may be cited as "The Political Offices Pension Act, 1869."

* The Section runs as follows:—

"VI. And whereas the principle of the regulations for granting allowances of this nature is and ought to be founded on a consideration, not only of the services performed by the individual to the State, but of the inadequacy of his private fortune to maintain his station in life; be it therefore enacted, that from and after the passing of this Act whenever any person shall seek to obtain any one of the pensions before mentioned his application for that purpose shall be made in writing to the Commissioners of His Majesty's Treasury, to which he shall subscribe his name, and which shall contain, not only a statement of the services performed by him and the grounds on which such pension is claimed, but a specific declaration that the amount of his income from other sources is so limited as to bring him within the intent and meaning of this Act and the principle hereinabove declared, and without such declaration no pension as hereinbefore provided or authorized shall be granted."
SCHEDULE.
Acts Repealed.

| Date of Act | Title of Act | Extent of Repeal |
|-------------|--------------|-----------------|
| 57 Geo. 3, c. 65 | An Act to enable His Majesty to recompense the services of persons holding or who have held certain high and efficient civil offices. | The whole Act. |
| 6 Geo. 4, c. 90 | An Act to amend an Act of the fifty-seventh year of His late Majesty, for enabling His Majesty to recompense the services of persons holding or who have held certain high and efficient civil offices. | The whole Act. |
| 4 & 5 Will. 4, c. 24 | An Act to alter, amend, and consolidate the laws for regulating the pensions, compensations, and allowances to be made to persons in respect of their having held civil offices in His Majesty's service. | Sections one, two, three, four, five, and seven. |

22 VICT., CAP. XXVI.

An Act to amend the Laws concerning Superannuations and other Allowances to Persons having held Civil Offices in the Public Service.

WHEREAS an Act was passed in the session holden in the fourth and fifth years of King William the Fourth, chapter twenty-four, "to alter, amend, and consolidate the laws for regulating the pensions, compensations, and allowances to be made to persons in respect of their having held Civil Offices in His Majesty's service:" and whereas by an Act of the session holden in the twentieth and twenty-first years of Her Majesty, chapter thirty-seven, section twenty-seven of the first-recited Act, by which an abatement was directed to be made from the salaries of civil servants entitled to superannuation allowance, was repealed: and whereas it is desirable further to amend the said Act as hereinafter mentioned: be it therefore enacted by the Queen's Most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:

I. Sections ten, eleven, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, seventeen, nineteen, and twenty-four of the said Act of the fourth and fifth years of King William the Fourth are hereby repealed, but such repeal shall not affect any pension, compensation, or superannuation allowance granted or act done before the passing of this Act.

II. Subject to the exceptions and provisions hereinafter contained, the superannuation allowance to be granted after the commencement of this Act to persons who shall have served in an established capacity in the permanent civil service of the state, whether their remuneration be computed by day pay, weekly wages, or annual salary, and for whom provision shall not otherwise have been made by Act of Parliament, or who may not be specially excepted by the authority of Parliament, shall be as follows; (that is to say),

To any person who shall have served ten years and upwards, and under eleven years, an annual allowance of ten-sixtieths of the annual salary and emoluments of his office;

For eleven years, and under twelve years, an annual allowance of eleven-sixtieths of such salary and emoluments;

And in like manner a further addition to the annual allowance of one-sixtieth in respect of each additional year of such service, until the completion of a period of service of forty years, when the annual allowance of forty-sixtieths may be granted; and no addition shall be made in respect of any service beyond forty years:

Provided always, that if any question should arise in any department of the public service as to the claim of any person or class of persons for superannuation under this clause, it shall be referred to the Commissioners of the Treasury, whose decision shall be final.

III. Nothing herein contained shall interfere with the grant to the officers and clerks who entered the public service prior to the fifth day of August One thousand eight hundred and twenty-nine, of such superannuation allowances as might hereafter have been granted to them under section nine of the said Act of the fourth and fifth years of King William the Fourth, or shall prevent, restrict, or diminish any other superannuation allowance, pension, gratuity, or compensation which, if this Act had not been passed, might hereafter have been granted to any person who shall have entered the public service before the passing of this Act, but, except as aforesaid, the provisions hereinafter contained shall apply as well to persons who have already entered the public service, whether before or after the said fifth day of August One thousand eight hundred and twenty-nine, as to those who may hereafter enter the public service.

IV. It shall be lawful for the Commissioners of the Treasury from time to time, by any order or warrant, to declare that for the due and efficient discharge of the duties of any office or class of offices to be specified in such order or warrant, professional or other peculiar qualifications not ordinarily to be acquired in the public service, are required, and that it is for the interest of the public that persons should be appointed thereto at an age exceeding that at which public service ordinarily begins; and by the same or any other order or warrant to direct that when any person now holding or who may hereafter be appointed to such office or any of such class of offices shall retire from the public service, a number of years not exceeding twenty, to be specified in the said order or warrant, shall, in computing the amount of superannuation allowance which may be granted to him under the foregoing section of this Act, be added to the number of years during which he may have actually served, and also to direct that in respect of such office or class of offices the period of service required to entitle
the holders to superannuation may be a period less than ten years, to be specified in the order or warrant; and also to direct that, in respect of such office or class of offices, the holder may be entitled to superannuation, though he may not hold his appointment directly from the Crown, and may not have entered the service with a certificate from the Civil Service Commissioners: provided always, that every order or warrant made under this enactment shall be laid before Parliament.

V. It shall be lawful for the Commissioners of the Treasury to grant to any person who, being the holder of an office in respect of which a superannuation allowance may be granted, but not having completed the period which would have entitled him to a superannuation allowance, is compelled to quit the public service by reason of severe bodily injury, occasioned, without his own default, in the discharge of his public duty, a gratuity not exceeding three months' pay for every two years of service, or a superannuation allowance not exceeding ten-sixtieths of the annual salary and emoluments of his office.

VI. It shall be lawful for the Commissioners of the Treasury to grant to any person who, being the holder of an office in respect of which a superannuation allowance may be granted, is constrained, from infirmity of mind or body, to leave the public service before the completion of the period which would entitle him to a superannuation allowance, such sum of money by way of gratuity as the said Commissioners may think proper, but so as that no such gratuity shall exceed the amount of one month's pay for each year of service.

VII. It shall be lawful for the Commissioners of the Treasury to grant to any person retiring or removed from the public service in consequence of the abolition of his office, or for the purpose of facilitating improvements in the organization of the department to which he belongs, by which greater efficiency and economy can be effected, such special annual allowance by way of compensation as on a full consideration of the circumstances of the case may seem to the said Commissioners to be a reasonable and just compensation for the loss of office; and if the compensation shall exceed the amount to which such person would have been entitled under the scale of superannuation provided by this Act if ten years were added to the number of years which he may have actually served, such allowance shall be granted by special Minute, stating the special grounds for granting such allowance, which Minute shall be laid before Parliament, and no such allowance shall exceed two-thirds of the salary and emoluments of the office.

VIII. It shall not be lawful for the Commissioners of the Treasury to grant the full amount of superannuation allowance which can be granted under this Act to any person not being the head officer or one of the head officers of a department, unless upon production of a certificate (signed by the head officer of the department, or by two head officers, if there be more than one) that he has served with diligence and fidelity to the satisfaction of such head officer or officers; and in every case in which any superannuation allowance is granted after the refusal of such certificate, the Minute granting it shall state such refusal and the grounds on which the allowance is granted.

IX. Provided, that it shall be lawful for the Commissioners of the Treasury to grant to any person any superannuation compensation, gratuity, or other allowance of greater amount than the amount which might be awarded to him under the foregoing provisions, when special services rendered by such person, and requiring special reward, shall appear to them to justify such increase, but so that such allowance shall in no case exceed the salary and emoluments enjoyed by the grantee at the time of retirement, and the grounds of every such increase shall be stated in a Minute of the Treasury, which shall be laid before Parliament; and it shall be lawful for the said Commissioners to grant to any person any such allowance of less amount than otherwise would have been awarded to him where his defaults or demerit in relation to the public service appear to them to justify such diminution.

X. It shall not be lawful to grant any superannuation allowance under the provisions of this Act to any person who shall be under sixty years, unless upon medical certificate to the satisfaction of the Commissioners of the Treasury that he is incapable, from infirmity of mind or body, to discharge the duties of his situation, and that such infirmity is likely to be permanent.

XI. Every person to whom a superannuation or compensation allowance shall have been granted before he shall have attained the age of sixty years shall, until he has attained that age, be liable to be called upon to fill, in any part of Her Majesty's dominions in which he shall before have served, any public office or situation under the Crown for which his previous public services may render him eligible; and if he shall decline, when called upon to do so, to take upon him such office or situation, or shall decline or neglect to execute the duties thereof satisfactorily, being in a competent state of health, he shall forfeit his right to the compensation or superannuation allowance which had been granted to him.*

XII. And whereas it will be for the advantage of the public service that officers holding employments entitling them to superannuation allowances under this or other Acts shall be eligible for other public employments at home and abroad, without forfeiting their claims to such allowances:

Every officer already or hereafter to be transferred from employment entitling him to superannuation allowance to public employment under the Crown not so entitling him shall be entitled, on his ultimate retirement from the public service, to the same allowance as if he had continued to hold the vacated appointment and at the same rate of salary as when the same was vacated, subject nevertheless to the conditions which would in that case have been applicable with respect to the grant of such allowance; provided that it shall be lawful for the Commissioners of the Treasury, in the case of officers transferred to governorships and lieutenant-governorships of colonies, and other high offices abroad, conferred for a limited period, to grant such superannuation allowance to such officers on the expiration of such term of service without a renewal of public employment; but any officer to whom such grant is made while under the age of sixty years shall be subject to the same liability to be called upon to fill office under the Crown, as herein provided concerning other persons under that age to whom like allowances are granted.

XIII. All orders, warrants, and minutes by this Act directed to be laid before Parliament shall be laid before both Houses of Parliament within fourteen days after the making thereof if Parliament be sitting, and if Parliament be not sitting then within fourteen days after the next meeting thereof.

* See Circulars relating to this clause at pages 211 and 212.—Ed. C. O. L.
XIV. No pension shall be granted under the provisions of section six of the Act of the fifty-seventh year of King George the Third, chapter sixty-five, to any person who shall not have had a seat in one of the Houses of Parliament during the period or one half of the period for which he has held office, as in the said section is mentioned.

XV. The several sections mentioned in the schedule hereto of the several Acts of Parliament, also therein mentioned, shall be construed as if this Act, instead of the said Act of the fourth and fifth years of the reign of King William the Fourth, had been referred to in the said sections; and each other enactments as refer to the scale of superannuation allowance established by the provisions hereby repealed of the said Act of King William the Fourth shall be construed as if the scale established by this Act had been referred to.

XVI. All superannuations, compensations, gratuities, and other allowances granted or hereafter under this Act to be granted shall be paid to the persons entitled to receive the same without any abatement or deduction in respect of any taxes or duties whatever at present existing, except the tax upon property or income.

XVII. For the purposes of this Act, no person hereafter to be appointed shall be deemed to have served in the permanent Civil Service of the State unless such person holds his appointment directly from the Crown, or has been admitted into the Civil Service with a certificate from the Civil Service Commissioners; nor shall any person, already appointed to any office be held to have served in the permanent Civil Service as aforesaid, unless such person belong to a class which is already entitled to superannuation allowance, or to a class in which, if he had been appointed thereto subsequently to the passing of this Act, he would, as holding his appointment directly from the Crown, or as having been admitted into the Civil Service with such certificate as aforesaid, have become entitled to such allowance; and no person shall be entitled to any superannuation allowance under this Act, unless his salary or remuneration has been provided out of the Consolidated Fund of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, or out of the moneys voted by Parliament.

XVIII. So much of the said Act of the fourth and fifth years of King William the Fourth, chapter twenty-four, as is now in force, and not hereby repealed, and this Act, shall be construed together as one Act.

XIX. It shall be sufficient, in citing this Act, to use the expression "The Superannuation Act, 1859."

SCHEDULE A.

| 5 & 6 W. 4. c. 42, s. 1. | 15 & 16 Vict. c. 73, s. 15. |
| 7 W. 4., & 1 Vict. c. 30, s. 21. | 15 & 16 Vict. c. 87, s. 46. |
| 8 & 9 Vict. c. 100, ss. 5, 10. | 17 & 18 Vict. c. 78, s. 22. |
| 13 & 14 Vict. c. 89, s. 39. | 19 & 20 Vict. c. 110, s. 9. |

35 VICT., CAP. XII.

An Act to amend an Act of the fourth and fifth years of King William the Fourth, chapter twenty-four, intituled "An Act to alter, amend, and consolidate the laws for regulating the pensions, compensations, and allowances to be made to persons in respect of their having held civil offices in His Majesty's service."

[13th May, 1872.]

WHEREAS by an Act passed in the session holden in the fourth and fifth years of King William the Fourth, chapter twenty-four, "to alter, amend, and consolidate the laws for regulating the pensions compensations and allowances to be made to persons in respect of their having held civil offices in His Majesty's service," it is provided amongst other things that "in case any person enjoying any superannuation allowance in consequence of retiring from office on account of age, infirmity, or any other cause, or enjoying any compensation for past services, upon the abolition or reduction of office, shall be appointed to fill any office in any public department, every such allowance or compensation shall cease to be paid for any period subsequent to such appointment if the annual amount of the profits of the office to which he shall be appointed shall be equal to those of the office formerly held by him, and in case they shall not be equal to those of his former office, then no more of such superannuation allowance or compensation shall be paid to him than what with the salary of his new appointment shall be equal to that of his former office." And whereas doubts have lately been entertained as to whether the expression "office in any public department," as used in the above-mentioned provisions, extends to public departments in any part of Her Majesty's dominions beyond the limits of the United Kingdom: And whereas it is expedient to remove such doubts: Be it enacted by the Queen's Most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:

I. It is hereby declared that the expression "office in any public department," as used in the above-mentioned provisions of the said Act, extends, and shall from the date of the passing of the said Act be deemed to have extended, to any office in any public department in the British possessions.

II. In this Act "British possession" shall include any territories for the time being vested in Her Majesty by virtue of any Act of Parliament for the government of India; also any colony, plantation, island, territory, or settlement within Her Majesty's dominions, and not within the United Kingdom.

III. This Act may be cited for all purposes as "The Superannuation Act, 1872."
36 VICT., CAP. XXIII.

An Act to amend the Law relating to the grant of Superannuation Allowances and Gratuities to certain persons who entered the permanent Civil Service of the State between the passing of the Superannuation Act, 1859, and the fourth day of June, one thousand eight hundred and seventy.

[26th May, 1873.]

WHEREAS by the Superannuation Act, 1859, it is enacted that for the purposes of that Act no person thereafter to be appointed shall be deemed to have served in the permanent Civil Service of the State unless such person holds his appointment directly from the Crown, or has been admitted into the Civil Service with a certificate from the Civil Service Commissioners:

And whereas it appears that in several public departments of the State persons have been appointed since the passing of the said Act to established situations in the Civil Service not held directly from the Crown, but that through inadvertence on the part of the heads of such departments, and without any default on the part of the persons so appointed, no steps were taken before their appointment to procure for them certificates from the Civil Service Commissioners:

And whereas it is unjust that the persons so appointed should be deprived of the superannuation allowances or gratuities which they were led to expect at the time when they entered the Civil Service:

Be it enacted by the Queen's Most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:

I. The Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury may, if they think fit, at any time before the first day of January one thousand eight hundred and seventy-four, with the concurrence of the Civil Service Commissioners, and on application being made to them for that purpose by the head or heads of any public department of the State, declare by order or warrant that any person who has been appointed to a permanent situation in such department without a certificate from the Civil Service Commissioners after the passing of the said Superannuation Act, 1859, and before the fourth day of June, one thousand eight hundred and seventy, was so appointed through inadvertence on the part of the head or heads of such department, and without any default on the part of the person so appointed, and every person with respect to whom such order or warrant may be issued shall be in the same position as regards his claim to a superannuation allowance or gratuity, under the said Superannuation Act, 1859, as he would have been in if he had been admitted into the Civil Service with a certificate from the Civil Service Commissioners.

Any order or warrant made in pursuance of this Act shall be laid before Parliament in manner provided by the thirteenth section of the said Superannuation Act, 1859.

The Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury shall cause to be laid before Parliament, not later than the expiration of one month after the commencement of the session of Parliament in the year one thousand eight hundred and seventy-four, a return showing the names of all persons with respect to whom any order or warrant has been issued in pursuance of this section, together with the situations to which and the departments in which they have been appointed.

II. This Act may be cited for all purposes as "The Superannuation Act Amendment Act, 1873."

38 VICT., CAP. IV.*

An Act to amend the Superannuation Act, 1859, so far as relates to the Superannuation Allowances to be granted to Civil Servants who have served in unhealthy Climates.

(Repealed as to its future operation by following Act, 39 and 40 Vict., c. 53.) [19th March 1875.]

WHEREAS it is expedient to authorise the grant of special rates of pension to persons who have served in an established capacity in the permanent civil service of the state, where such persons have served in an unhealthy place:

Be it therefore enacted by the Queen's Most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:

1. It shall be lawful for the Commissioners of the Treasury from time to time by any order or warrant to declare that any country or place therein named shall be deemed to be an unhealthy place, and the same shall thereupon be deemed, for the purposes of the Superannuation Act, 1859, and this Act, to be an unhealthy place.

Section thirteen of the Superannuation Act, 1859, relating to the laying of orders and warrants before Parliament, shall apply to every order and warrant made under this section.

2. When a person who has served in an established capacity in the permanent civil service of the state is entitled to any superannuation, compensation, gratuity, or other allowance under the provisions of the Superannuation Act, 1859, two years' service by him in an unhealthy place shall, in calculating the amount of such superannuation, compensation, gratuity, or other allowance, be reckoned as service for three years; and service in an unhealthy place for any greater or less period than two years shall be reckoned in the like proportion: But nothing in this Act contained shall alter or affect the second section of the Superannuation Act, 1859, so far as it requires a service of ten years before a person becomes entitled to any annual superannuation allowance.

3. This Act shall commence on the seventeenth day of February, one thousand eight hundred and seventy-five, and apply to persons who have retired from the public service since that day.

4. This Act may be cited as the Superannuation Act, 1875, and shall be construed as one with the Superannuation Act, 1859, and together with that Act may be cited as the Superannuation Acts, 1859 and 1875.

* See Circular on the subject of this Act, printed at page 227.—Ed. C. O. L.

39 & 40 VICT., CAP. LIII.

An Act to make Further Provision respecting the Superannuation Allowance to be granted to Civil Servants serving in Unhealthy Climates. [11th August, 1876.]

WHEREAS by the Superannuation Act, 1875, provision was made for the grant of special rates of pension
to persons who had served in an established capacity in the permanent civil service of the State in unhealthy places, and it is expedient to make further provision for the like purpose:

Be it therefore enacted by the Queen's Most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same as follows, viz.:—

Unhealthy Places.

1. The Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury (in this Act referred to as the Treasury) may from time to time by order declare that any country or place therein named shall be deemed, and the same shall thereupon be deemed, for the purposes of the Superannuation Act, 1859, and this Act, to be an unhealthy place.

The Treasury may from time to time by order revoke or vary an order previously made under this section, but the amount of superannuation, compensation, gratuity, or other allowance to be granted to any person serving, before the date of the order of revocation or alteration, in the unhealthy place affected thereby, shall be the same as if it had not been made.

2. For the purpose of reckoning the amount of any superannuation, compensation, gratuity, or other allowance to be granted under the Superannuation Act, 1859, to a person who has served in an established capacity in the permanent civil service of the State, two years' service in an unhealthy place shall be reckoned a service for three years, and service in an unhealthy place for any greater or less period than two years shall be reckoned in the like proportion.

Provided that nothing in this section—

(L.) Shall alter so much of section two of the Superannuation Act, 1859, as requires a service of ten years before an annual superannuation allowance can be granted; or

(2.) Shall, without the consent of the Treasury, apply to a person who was residing in an unhealthy place when he entered the permanent civil service of the State.

Supplemental.

3. Every order under this Act shall be laid before both Houses of Parliament in accordance with section thirteen of the Superannuation Act, 1859.

4. This Act shall apply to persons who have retired from the public service since the seventeenth day of February one thousand eight hundred and seventy-five.

5. This Act may be cited as the Superannuation Act, 1876, and shall be construed as one with the Superannuation Act, 1859, and that Act and this Act may be cited together as the Superannuation Acts, 1859 and 1876.

Repeal.

6. The Superannuation Act, 1875, is hereby repealed:

Provided that—

(1.) This repeal shall not affect anything duly done or suffered under the Act hereby repealed; and

(2.) Any order or warrant made in pursuance of the said Act shall have effect as if it were an order made in pursuance of this Act.

TREASURY MINUTE.

Dated 14th June, 1859.

My Lords have under consideration the report of the Committee, appointed under the Board minute of 20th May, 1859, upon the provision of the Superannuation Act, 22 Vict. cap. 26.

My Lords approve of the regulations proposed by the Committee for ascertaining the amount of retiring allowances to be granted to persons who may have entered the Civil Service previous to the passing of the Act, and whether before or after the 5th August, 1829; also for awarding compensation allowances for abolition of office.

These regulations are as follow:—

I. As regards those who may have entered the Civil Service before 5th August, 1829:—

1. That the maximum amount of the superannuation allowance for the quinquennial period, under the 4 & 5 Will. 4, cap. 24, sect. 9, preceding that through which the applicant is passing be estimated.

2. That to that maximum there be added for each year in excess of the preceding quinquennial period \( \frac{1}{4} \) of \( \frac{1}{4} \) equal to \( \frac{1}{4} \) of the applicant's salary and emoluments.

3. That the applicant be considered entitled to this amount under ordinary circumstances.

A larger amount may be awarded in cases of special merit, but within the maximum of the quinquennial period.

A smaller amount may be awarded in case of demerit.

In either of these cases the claim to be submitted to the full Superannuation Committee, and a note to be made of the grounds of the decision.

II. As regards those who may have entered the service since 5th August, 1829:—

1. That the maximum amount of the superannuation allowance for the septennial period, under the 4 & 5 Will. 4, cap. 24, sect. 10, preceding that through which the applicant is passing be estimated.

2. That to that maximum there be added for each year in excess of the preceding septennial period \( \frac{1}{4} \) of \( \frac{1}{4} \) equal to \( \frac{1}{4} \) of the applicant's salary and emoluments.

3. As in the former cases the applicant shall be considered entitled to this amount under ordinary circumstances.

A larger amount may be awarded in case of special merit, but within the maximum of the septennial period.

A smaller amount may be awarded in case of demerit.
In either of these cases the claim shall be submitted to the full Superannuation Committee, and a note be made of the grounds of the decision.

4. When a higher rate of superannuation would accrue under the 22 Vict., cap. 26, that higher rate shall be allowed.

III. That in no case shall any fractional part of a year be allowed.

IV. That with respect to cases of abolition of office which may arise under clause 7 of the 22 Vict., cap. 26, persons who shall have served twenty years and upwards, a period of ten years shall be added to their actual service in computing their retiring allowance under the circumstances described in the clause in question:

To persons who shall have served under twenty years and not less than fifteen years, a period of seven years shall be added.

To persons who shall have served under fifteen years and not less than ten, a period of five years shall be added.

To persons who shall have served under ten years and not less than five, a period of three years shall be added.

To persons who shall have served less than five years, an allowance shall be awarded calculated at the rate of one-sixtieth for each year of service, with an addition of one year or one-sixtieth.

In consideration, however, of the very small allowances which would frequently have to be granted in these latter cases, my Lords will be prepared to entertain any application which may be made to them to commute such annual allowances for fixed payments calculated at five years' purchase.

With regard to persons appointed or to be appointed subsequently to the passing of the Act of 22 Vict., my Lords observe that the language of the Act is precise, and that such persons are to be held entitled to the retiring allowances prescribed by the 2nd section of the Act, provided they fulfil the conditions of the 17th section, and provided my Lords do not find it necessary to exercise the power conferred on them by the 9th section of reducing the allowance on account of the demerits of the person claiming it.

The parties entitled to be considered Civil servants under the 17th Clause are accurately stated in the Report of the Committee as follows, viz.:

I. Persons hereafter to be appointed:

A.—Those holding appointments directly from the Crown.

B.—Those admitted into the Civil Service with a certificate from the Civil Service Commissioners.

II. Persons appointed to office before 19th April, 1859, the date of the passing of the Superannuation Act of 1859:

A.—Those belonging to a class already entitled to superannuation allowance.

B.—Those holding appointments directly from the Crown.

C.—Those admitted into the Civil Service with a certificate from the Civil Service Commissioners, or belonging to a class which is hereafter to be admitted.

As regards the provisions of the 4th section of the Act under which my Lords are empowered to admit the claims to superannuation of persons not fulfilling the conditions of the 17th section, and to add a number of years, not exceeding twenty, to the period of service in certain cases, for the purpose of computing the amount of the retiring allowance, my Lords are pleased to declare that the following offices should be considered as entitling their holders to the benefits of the Act, though they may not have fulfilled the conditions of the 17th section, and that the number of years to be added to the service of the officers for the purpose of computation, should be—

For the 1st Class ten years.

For the 2nd " seven years.

For the 3rd " five years.

First Class (ten years).

Under Secretaries of State,

Assistant Secretary to the Treasury,

Counsel for Drawing Bills,

Solicitors to Public Departments,

Police and Stipendiary Magistrates,

Chief Commissioner of Police,

Medical Officers attached to the Privy Council,

Chairman of Directors of Convict Prisons,

Inspector General for Art,

Director of the National Gallery.

Second Class (seven years).

Legal Assistants at—

Board of Trade,

Colonial Office,

Poor Law Board,

And other Departments;

Directors of Convict Prisons,

Commissioners of Police,

Professors and Masters of the Royal Military College and similar Establishments;

Medical men employed in the Civil Service, and giving their whole time;

Inspectors of Mines,

" Factories,

" Coal-mines,

" Anatomy,

" Constabulary,

" Prisons and Reformatories,

" Poor Law.

Third Class (five years).

Government Chaplains of Convict Prisons,

Inspectors of Schools,

Inspectors of Art,

Translator at the Foreign Office.

My Lords will add to the foregoing list any other offices which may, on full consideration, appear to be properly within the scope of the 4th section of the Act.
COPY OF TREASURY MINUTE.
Dated 24th August, 1860.

My Lords have under consideration the 2nd Report of the Superannuation Committee, appointed by the Minute of 30th May, 1859.

The Committee recommend that the following offices, in addition to those enumerated in the Minute of 14th June, 1859, shall be brought within the provision of the 4th clause of the 22nd Vic., c. 26, so far as entitling the persons filling such offices to have an additional number of years computed in the calculation of the period of their services, with a view to superannuation allowance on retirement, by reason of the professional or peculiar qualifications required for such offices, and be placed in the 1st, 2nd, or 3rd classes established by the said Minute for such purposes:

**In the Home Office.**

- Assistant Commissioners of Police
- Police Surgeon-in-Chief
- Directors of Reformatories
- Governors of Prisons
- Surveyor-General of Prisons

To be placed in the 3rd Class.

**Colonial Office.**

- Emigration Commissioners

Do. 2nd "

**Admiralty.**

- Medical Director-General
- Director of Works

Do. 1st "

**Council Office.**

- Inspector-General of Art and Referee
- Superintendent-General of Quarantine
- Inspectors of Art, Science, and Navigation
- Architect and Engineer
- Director of Geological Survey
- Director of Museum, London
- " Edinburgh
- " Dublin
- Professors

Do. 1st "
Do. 2nd "
Do. 2nd "
Do. 2nd "
Do. 2nd "
Do. 2nd "
Do. 2nd "

**Board of Trade.**

- Professional Members of Marine Department
- Surveyor-General, Marine Department
- Inspectors, Railway Department
- Head of Meteorological Department

Do. 2nd "
Do. 2nd "
Do. 2nd "
Do. 2nd "

**British Museum.**

- Principal Librarian

To be placed in the 1st Class.

**Office of Works.**

- Surveyor of Works
- Salaried Architect and Surveyor
- Clerks of Works
- Director of Kew Gardens
- Curator of Kew Gardens

Do. 2nd "
Do. 2nd "
Do. 3rd "
Do. 1st "
Do. 2nd "

**Woods and Forests.**

- Chief Mineral Inspector
- Architect
- Surveyor

Do. 2nd "
Do. 2nd "
Do. 2nd "

**Poor Law Board.**

- Legal Secretary
- Inspectors

Do. 2nd "
Do. 2nd "

**Ireland.**

- Under-Secretary
- Chairman of Convict Prisons
- Inspector-General of Prisons
- Governor of Prisons and similar Institutions
- Presidents and Vice-Presidents, Queen's College
- Inspectors of National Schools
- Chaplains of Convict Prisons and similar Institutions
- Solicitor, Board of Works
- Architect, do.
- Engineer, do.
- Surveyor of Buildings, do.
- Inspectors of Lunatic Asylums

Do. 1st "
Do. 1st "
Do. 1st "
Do. 3rd "
Do. 2nd "
Do. 3rd "
Do. 1st "
Do. 2nd "
Do. 2nd "
Do. 2nd "

**Colonial.**

- Colonial Judges and Magistrates
- Colonial Chaplains

To be placed in the 1st Class
Do. 2nd "

The Committee further suggest that in the case of civil servants of the Crown holding offices in the
more unhealthy Colonies, the right to receive superannuation allowance might accrue, in case of retirement from bad health, after seven years.

My Lords, concurring in the recommendations of the Committee, are pleased by this order to direct and declare, that the offices enumerated by the Committee shall be added to those appointed in the Minute of 14th June, 1859, to come within the 4th clause of the Act of 1859, and that they shall be classified, as regards the number of years to be added in computing the amount of retiring allowance, according to the recommendations of the Committee.

As regards the period at which, in the more unhealthy of the British Colonies, such as the West Coast of Africa, and some of the West India Islands, the right to receive superannuation allowance should accrue in case of retirement from bad health, my Lords are of opinion that it is not expedient at present to lay down any general rule, but that the cases of such offices should be dealt with under the 4th clause as they arise.

(But as to the West African Service, see Chapter XVIII of the Colonial Regulations, Part VIII, of this publication. An Act in amendment of the Superannuation Act of 1859 enabling the Treasury to count two years' service in an "unhealthy climate" as three years for pension purposes, is printed at page 194. The Act does not apply to colonial civil servants, but a circular from the Secretary of State on the subject will be found printed as an appendix to Part V, at page 214.—Ed. C. O. L., Feb. 1875.)

TREASURY MINUTE.

17th December, 1864.

My Lords have before them their Minute of 14th June, 1859, the 4th clause of which regulates the granting of allowances by way of compensation, under the 7th sec. of the Act 22 Vict., cap. 26, to persons on the occasion of abolition of office.

By that Minute a specified number of years is to be added to the actual number which persons may have served, without reference to the period of life which they may have attained.

Upon further consideration of this subject, my Lords are of opinion that it would not be proper to adhere too strictly to this rule in the case of persons who may be advanced in years, and who, from that circumstance, might not remain much longer in the public service; and that, in such cases, they should reserve to themselves the free exercise of their discretion in fixing the number of years which should be added to the actual service, according to the view which they may take of the circumstances of each particular case.

My Lords are, therefore, pleased to declare that, in the case of persons who, if they served the time granted by that Minute for compensation, would be over 60 years, and who may retire from office under the circumstances above referred to, they will not consider themselves bound by that Minute, but that they will decide upon each particular case according to the view they may take, after a full consideration of all the circumstances attending it.

TREASURY MINUTE.

Dated 14th March, 1870.

My Lords have recently had their attention drawn to the fact that, when submitting for retiring allowance the cases of officers quitting the Civil Service, the several public departments do not follow a uniform course in fixing the date from which the salary of the officer is to cease.

Thus, in some cases, the date is inserted in the Superannuation Form under the heading set apart for that purpose.

In others it is stated that the salary will cease from the day on which this Board grants the pension.

In others again, the words "still serving" are inserted under the heading Date of Cessation of Duty, while no date is given as that on which the salary will cease, and

Finally, in many cases no date is furnished, and it is only after the retiring allowance has been awarded by my Lords, that they are informed of the date from which the department considers that the salary should cease.

This variation of practice frequently leads to inconvenience, since it is often impossible for my Lords to calculate a pension depending on the length of an officer's service, unless the exact day of his retirement is before them.

Under these circumstances, my Lords are of opinion that, for the future, one uniform rule should be adopted in this particular throughout the Civil Service, wherever possible, and with this object they desire that in all cases henceforth submitted to them for the grant of a retiring allowance the following rules may be observed.

1. That the dates on which the salary and services of the officer retiring cease, should be entered under the heading reserved for that purpose in the printed Superannuation Form, before the case is submitted to my Lords.

2. That where the case is not sent to the Treasury on or before the date of the cessation of the officer's salary, it may be sent as soon as possible afterwards, in order that there may be no unnecessary delay in the grant of the pension.

3. That, in the event of its subsequently appearing desirable to retain the services of an officer retiring, after the date inserted in his Superannuation Form, application should be made to the Treasury for the return of his papers, and the case should be submitted again at the date on which he eventually retires.

In fixing the amount of pension to be granted, my Lords for the future will base their award on the dates of cessation of salary and service given in the Form, and they must decline to take into consideration any increment of salary or addition to the number of years served which might have accrued to the officer if he had been considered as remaining in the service between the date inserted in the Superannuation Form and that on which the Board of Treasury award the pension.
IMPERIAL PENSION MINUTES.

TRANSMITTED TO THE COLONIES IN A CIRCULAR DESPATCH OF 19TH NOVEMBER, 1872.

Mr. Law to Mr. Herbert.

Superannuation of Persons who hold Two Public Appointments at the same time.

Sir,

I am directed by the Lords Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury to acquaint you, for the information of the Earl of Kimberley, that when any person holding two civil offices under the Imperial Government at the same time desires to retire from one of them on account of age or ill health, my Lords will not be prepared to award him any superannuation allowance unless he retires from both his offices at the same time.

A similar rule will be applied in the case of a person who holds a civil office under the Imperial Government in conjunction with a civil office under the Indian or any Colonial Government.

R. G. W. Herbert, Esq., Colonial Office.

(Signed) WILLIAM LAW.

CIRCULAR.

Sir,

Having had under my consideration the question of the proper mode of dealing, for Pension purposes, with the House Allowances and Fees of Public Officers, I have now to communicate to you, for your information and guidance, the decisions at which I have arrived.

1st. As to House Allowances.

The value of the House or House Allowance should be taken on the average of the three years preceding the Officer's retirement. Whenever the value so ascertained exceeds one-sixth of the salary and other emoluments which count for Pension purposes, it is to be reduced to one-sixth of that amount, so that it shall not exceed one-seventh of the whole.

2nd. Fees, &c.

Fees which an Officer is allowed to retain for his own use will be taken into account for Pension purposes, with regular salary, at the average of the net receipts of the three years next preceding the Officer's retirement. These net receipts are to be ascertained by deducting from the gross amount of Fees such Office Expenses, &c., as an Officer may have had to defray from his own resources, in performing the services for which he was remunerated by Fees. No deduction, however, from the Fees should be made in respect of Office expenses provided from Public Funds for the due discharge of those duties to which a Fixed Salary is annexed. Papers of "Particulars" when forwarded to this Department in pursuance of Clause 98 of the Colonial Regulations, should be accompanied by formal declarations from the retiring Officers showing the amount received by them for Fees, and the amount defrayed as above for Office Expenses, &c., in each of the three years preceding the retirement. It will be the duty of the Colonial Governments concerned to satisfy themselves of the accuracy of such statements before forwarding them to this Office. In the case of Officers receiving Fixed Salaries and Fees, the Fees will not in ordinary circumstances be allowed to count for Pension purposes to the extent of more than one quarter of the Salaries, and Fees will not in any case be allowed to count for Pension purposes during any period in which the whole time of the Officer receiving them was not given to the public service.

I am, &c.

The Officer Administering the Government of

(Signed) KIMBERLEY

MEMORANDUM.

Pensions of Officers quitting Imperial for Colonial Service.

Colonial Office, 1873.

I. On the final retirement from the Public Service, on pension or compensation allowance, of Officers who had quitted the Imperial Service for service in the Colonies, Her Majesty's Treasury will recognise their right to pension from Imperial Funds for the years spent in the Home Service, however few they may have been, provided only that the years of Imperial and Colonial Service combined amounted to ten or more, and provided also that the Imperial and Colonial Service were each unbroken and were each of such a nature as to give a claim to superannuation.

II. The amount of Imperial pension will be, for each year of completed service at home, one-sixtieth of the salary which the officer was receiving when he quitted the Home Service—except in certain cases, defined by Section 12 of the Act 4 and 5 Win. IV, c. 24, in which the pension would be calculated on the average salary of the Officer for the three years next preceding his transfer to the Colonial Service. "Allowances" to Officers in lieu of salary, or in addition to salary, would be dealt with according to the Treasury practice in such cases.

Sir,

Downing Street, 16th March, 1875.

I have the honor to transmit to you a copy of a letter from the Treasury, having reference to the re-employment of persons who have been pensioned under the Superannuation Act.

My object in sending you the Circular is to call your special attention to the second case, in which a pension already granted may be forfeited under the 11th Section of the Act, and to request that you will bear in mind that any such person, serving in the Colony under your Government, who desires to resign his office before he is sixty years of age or permanently disabled, should be expressly cautioned that his resignation will entail the loss of the pension granted to him in respect of his previous services.

I have the honor to be, Sir, your most obedient humble Servant,

CARNARVON.

The Officer Administering the Government of
Sir,

I have the honor to transmit to you, for your information, a copy of the correspondence* noted in the margin, which has recently taken place on a question raised by the Governor of Ceylon with regard to the application of the Treasury instructions of the 22nd December, 1871, a copy of which was enclosed in my Circular Despatch of the 16th March last, to the circumstances of that Colony where the Grant of Pensions to Public Officers is regulated by a Minute which specifies 55 years as the age at which an Officer may retire without being pronounced unfit for service by a Medical Board.

You will perceive from this correspondence that although the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury have consented to waive in favor of a person who resigns his employment under a Colonial Government after attaining the age specified by the local Regulations for superannuation without a Medical Certificate, those portions of their Rules which would compel the forfeiture of the Imperial Pension on the ground that he had retired before attaining the age of sixty, their Lordships do not think they would be justified in dispensing with the requirements of the 11th Section of the Superannuation Act, 1859, which would render such a person liable to serve again until he attained the age of sixty in the country in which he had formerly served, and in respect of which service the Imperial Pension was granted.

I have the honor to be, Sir, your most obedient humble Servant,

CARNARVON.

The Officer Administering the Government of

28 & 29 VICT., CAP. CXIII.

An Act to authorize the Payment of Retiring Pensions to Colonial Governors.† [July 5th, 1865].

WHEREAS it is expedient that Retiring Pensions should be granted in certain cases to officers who have administered the Government of Her Majesty's Colonial Possessions: Be it enacted by the Queen's most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, to this present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:

1. In this Act the term "Colony" includes any Plantation, Island, or other Possession within Her Majesty's Dominions, exclusive of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, and of the Islands being immediate Dependencies thereof, and exclusive of India, as defined by the Act of Parliament of 1858 "for the better Government of India."

2. The full rate of pension hereinafter referred to shall be as follows, that is to say:
   In the case of officers who shall for at least four years have administered the Government of any Colony or Colonies in which the salary of the Governor is not less than five thousand pounds, one thousand pounds.
   In the case of officers who shall for at least four years have administered the Government of any Colony or Colonies in which the salary of the Governor is not less than two thousand five hundred pounds, seven hundred and fifty pounds:
   In the case of officers who shall for at least four years have administered the Government of any Colony or Colonies in which the salary of the Governor is not less than one thousand two hundred pounds, five hundred pounds:
   In other cases, two hundred and fifty pounds.

3. The reduced rate of pension hereinafter referred to shall in all cases be two-thirds of the full rate.

4. One of Her Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State may, by writing under his hand, grant the full rate of pension to any person who, being of the age of sixty, shall have administered the Government of any Colony or Colonies for periods amounting in the whole to eighteen years, or who, being of the age aforesaid, shall have administered such Government or Governments for periods amounting in the whole to ten years, and shall have been employed in the whole either in such administration or in the permanent Civil Service of Her Majesty, for periods amounting in the whole to twenty-five years, or to any person who, having administered such Government or Governments for periods amounting in the whole to fifteen years, shall have established, to the satisfaction of such Secretary of State, that he is incapable, from infirmity of mind or body contracted while administering his Government, of discharging the duties of any office in the public service, and that such infirmity is likely to be permanent.

5. Such Secretary of State may, by such writing as aforesaid, grant the reduced rate of pension to any person being of the age of sixty, who, after having attained the age of forty, shall have administered the Government of any Colony or Colonies for periods amounting in the whole to twelve years, or to any person being of the age of sixty, who, after having attained the age of forty, shall have administered such Government or Governments for periods amounting in the whole to eight years, and shall have been employed in the whole, either in such administration or in the permanent Civil Service of Her Majesty, for periods amounting in the whole to twenty years, or to any person who, having administered such Government or Governments for periods amounting in the whole to ten years, shall have established to the satisfaction of such Secretary of State that he is incapable from infirmity of mind or body contracted while administering his Government, of discharging the duties of any office in the public service, and that such infirmity is likely to be permanent.

6. No person whose claim to a pension under the provisions of this Act is founded in part upon his employment in the permanent Civil Service of Her Majesty, shall be entitled to claim a superannuation allowance, in respect of the same employment, under the provisions of any other Act of Parliament.

* Not printed. † Governors' pensions in most cases date from day of application, if they are eligible in respect of age, &c.
7. In case any person to whom a pension shall have been granted under the provisions of this Act shall be or become entitled to any half-pay, salary, or other emolument from any public revenue raised, or in respect of any public services performed, within Her Majesty's dominions, his pension shall be reduced by half the amount of such half-pay, salary, or emolument.

8. In case any person to whom a pension shall have been granted under the provisions of this Act shall, by reason of his re-employment, become eligible for any higher rate of pension than that already granted him, one of Her Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State may, by such writing aforesaid, grant to him such higher rate of pension.

9. In case any person, having administered the Government of any Colony and not being of the full age of sixty, shall be called upon by Her Majesty to administer the Government of any Colony not being of a lower class than that on which his rate of pension has been, or in case of his retirement on reaching the age of sixty, would be calculated, and not being incapable, from infirmity of mind or body, of administering such Government, shall refuse to administer the same; or if any such person, not being of the full age of sixty-five, shall relinquish such Government without the permission of Her Majesty, or shall neglect or decline to execute the duties thereof satisfactorily, the said Secretary of State may, by writing under his hand, declare that such person has forfeited all claim to any pension under this Act and such claim shall thereupon be forfeited accordingly.

10. In case any person shall have administered the Government of any Colony or Colonies, and shall have likewise been employed in the permanent Civil Service of Her Majesty, but shall not have become entitled to any pension under the preceding clauses of this Act, the number of years passed in the Government of such Colony or Colonies shall, for the purpose of computing any superannuation allowance to be granted to such person under the Superannuation Act, 1859, be taken to have been passed in the permanent Civil Service of Her Majesty, and at the rate of salary last received by such person in respect of his employment in such permanent Civil Service.

11. Any person claiming a pension shall, for the purposes of this Act, be taken to have been employed in the permanent Civil Service of Her Majesty while holding any office which at the time of his claiming such pension would entitle the holder thereof to superannuation allowance under the Superannuation Act, 1859.

12. One of Her Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State may, with the consent of the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury, from time to time determine under what conditions and to what extent any officer shall be deemed for the purposes of this Act to have been administering the Government of any Colony while administering the same provisionally, or while absent from his Government with permission of Her Majesty; and for the purposes of this Act the Commission issued under the Great Seal of the Territory of New South Wales for the Government of the District of Port Philip shall be taken to have constituted that District a Colony.

13. All pensions granted under this Act shall be paid out of such moneys as Parliament may provide for the purpose, and a statement of all such pensions shall be laid annually before Parliament.

---

35 & 36 VICT., CAP. XXIX.

An Act to amend the Act of Session of the twenty-eighth and twenty-ninth years of the reign of Her present Majesty, chapter one hundred and thirteen, intituled "An Act to authorize the Payment of Retiring Pensions to Colonial Governors."

WHEREAS by the Colonial Governors' Pensions Act, 1865, one of Her Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State is authorized to grant to persons who have administered the government of any colony or colonies for certain periods the full rate of pension or the reduced rate of pension as therein provided, and it is expedient to authorize in certain cases an increase of such reduced rate of pension, and otherwise to amend the said Act: Be it enacted by the Queen's Most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:

I. The principal Act and this Act may be cited together as The Colonial Governors' (Pensions) Acts, 1865 and 1872, and each of them may be cited as the Colonial Governors' (Pensions) Act of the year in which it was passed.

II. This Act shall be construed as one with the Act of the session of the twenty-eighth and twentyninth years of the reign of Her present Majesty, chapter one hundred and thirteen, intituled "An Act to authorize the payment of retiring pensions to Colonial Governors," in this Act referred to as the principal Act.

III. Where one of Her Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State grants to any person the reduced rate of pension under section five of the principal Act he may, if he think fit, grant to such person a pension,

(1.) If such person has administered the government of any colony or colonies for periods amounting in the whole to not less than fifteen years, equal to the reduced rate of pension, with the addition of such fraction of the full rate of pension defined by the principal Act as is specified in Part I. of the schedule of this Act; and

(2.) If such person has administered the government of any colony or colonies for periods amounting in the whole to eight years, and has been employed either in such administration or in the permanent civil service of Her Majesty for periods amounting in the whole to not less than twenty-two years, equal to the reduced rate of pension, with the addition of such fraction of the full rate of pension defined by the principal Act as is specified in Part II. of the Schedule to this Act.
### SCHEDULE

**Fraction of Full Rate of Pension** as defined by section two of the principal Act, which may be granted as an increase of the reduced Rate of Pension.

#### PART I.

Where the pension is granted to a person who has administered the government of a colony or colonies for periods amounting in the whole to not less than fifteen years.

| And at the time of his retirement is of the age of | If the said periods amount to |
|---------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------|
|                                                   | 17 but not 18 years.        | 16 but not 17 years.        | 15 but not 16 years.        |
| 60 and under 61 years                             | 9-40ths                     | 6-40ths                     | 3-40ths                     |
| 61                                                | 9-40ths                     | 6-40ths                     | 2-40ths                     |
| 62                                                | 9-40ths                     | 5-40ths                     | 2-40ths                     |
| 63                                                | 9-40ths                     | 5-40ths                     | 2-40ths                     |
| 64                                                | 9-40ths                     | 4-40ths                     | 1-40th                      |
| 65                                                | 8-40ths                     | 4-40ths                     | 1-40th                      |
| 66                                                | 8-40ths                     | 4-40ths                     | 1-40th                      |
| 67                                                | 8-40ths                     | 4-40ths                     | 1-40th                      |
| 68                                                | 8-40ths                     | 4-40ths                     | Nil                         |
| 69                                                | 8-40ths                     | 4-40ths                     | do.                         |
| 70                                                | 8-40ths                     | 3-40ths                     | do.                         |
| 71                                                | 8-40ths                     | 3-40ths                     | do.                         |
| 72                                                | 8-40ths                     | 3-40ths                     | do.                         |
| 73                                                | 7-40ths                     | 2-40ths                     | do.                         |
| 74 and upwards                                    | 7-40ths                     | 2-40ths                     | do.                         |

#### PART II.

Where the pension is granted to a person who has administered the government of any colony or colonies for periods amounting in the whole to eight years, and has been employed either in such administration or in the permanent Civil Service of Her Majesty for periods amounting in the whole to not less than twenty-two years.

| And at the time of his retirement is of the age of | If the said periods amount to |
|---------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------|
|                                                   | 24 but not 25 years.        | 23 but not 24 years.        | 22 but not 23 years.        |
| 60 and under 61 years                             | 9-40ths                     | 6-40ths                     | 3-40ths                     |
| 61                                                | 9-40ths                     | 6-40ths                     | 2-40ths                     |
| 62                                                | 9-40ths                     | 5-40ths                     | 2-40ths                     |
| 63                                                | 9-40ths                     | 5-40ths                     | 2-40ths                     |
| 64                                                | 9-40ths                     | 4-40ths                     | 1-40th                      |
| 65                                                | 8-40ths                     | 4-40ths                     | 1-40th                      |
| 66                                                | 8-40ths                     | 4-40ths                     | 1-40th                      |
| 67                                                | 8-40ths                     | 4-40ths                     | 1-40th                      |
| 68                                                | 8-40ths                     | 4-40ths                     | Nil                         |
| 69                                                | 8-40ths                     | 4-40ths                     | do.                         |
| 70                                                | 8-40ths                     | 3-40ths                     | do.                         |
| 71                                                | 8-40ths                     | 3-40ths                     | do.                         |
| 72                                                | 8-40ths                     | 3-40ths                     | do.                         |
| 73                                                | 7-40ths                     | 2-40ths                     | do.                         |
| 74 and upwards                                    | 7-40ths                     | 2-40ths                     | do.                         |

### PENSION RULES IN PARTICULAR COLONIES.

It was formerly usual to publish, in this work, *in extenso*, the pension laws or minutes in force in particular Colonies. Much of the matter contained in these Rules is identical in regard to all Laws or Minutes relating to Pensions, and, as curtailment has become necessary owing to the growing bulk of the publication, it has been found necessary to substitute for the Laws and Minutes *in extenso* a statement of so much of them as is peculiar to each case, and is requisite for the information of Public Servants. The omitted matter is to be found in the Imperial Acts, and is well-known to all Civil Servants, viz., that Service must be continuous, that Service must be certified to be meritorious, that a claim to Pension is not a matter of right, and that Civil Servants superannuated before the usual age of retirement may, in certain circumstances, be recalled to service.—[Ed. C. O. L.]
The following is a comparative view of the advantages in respect of pensions offered by Colonies (not being responsible Government Colonies) to their ordinary Civil Servants:

| Colony          | Fraction of Salary allowed in pension for each Year of Service | Number of Years added (if any) | Age of Retirement | Maximum Pension |
|-----------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------|------------------|----------------|
| *Barbados       | 1/5                                                           | 0                             | 60               |                |
| †British Guiana | 1/5                                                           | 0                             | 55               |                |
| Ceylon          | 1/5                                                           | 5                             | 55               |                |
| Gibraltar       | 1/5                                                           | 0                             | 60               |                |
| Gambia          | 1/5                                                           | 0                             | 55               |                |
| Gold Coast      | 1/4                                                           | 0                             | 55               |                |
| Grenada         | 1/5                                                           | 5‡                            |                  |                |
| Griqualand      | 1/5                                                           | 0                             | 60               |                |
| Heligoland      | 1/5                                                           | 0                             | 60               |                |
| Honduras        | 1/5                                                           | 5‡                            |                  |                |
| Hong Kong       | 1/5                                                           | 5                             | 55               |                |
| †Jamaica        | 1/5                                                           | 5‡                            |                  |                |
| Labuan          | 1/5                                                           | 5‡                            |                  |                |
| Lagos           | 1/5                                                           | 0                             | 55               |                |
| Malta           | 1/5                                                           | 0                             | 60               |                |
| Mauritius       | 1/5                                                           | 5‡                            |                  |                |
| Natal           | 1/5                                                           | {5 after 10}                  |                  |                |
|                 |                                                               | {7 ,, 15}                     |                  |                |
|                 |                                                               | {10 ,, 20}                    |                  |                |
| St. Helena      | 1/5                                                           | 0                             | 60               |                |
| St. Kitts       | 1/5                                                           | 5                             | 55               |                |
| St. Lucia       | 1/5                                                           | 5‡                            |                  |                |
| St. Vincent     | 1/5                                                           | 5‡                            |                  |                |
| Sierra Leone    | 1/5                                                           | 0                             | 55               |                |
| Strait Settlements | 1/5                                                        | 5                             | 55               |                |
| Tobago          | 1/5                                                           | 5‡                            |                  |                |
| Trinidad        | 1/5                                                           | 5‡                            |                  |                |
| Turks Island    | 1/5                                                           | 0                             | 65               |                |

Ceylon Pension Minutes (Analysis).

These Minutes are dated

- December 5, 1846 (Judges).
- July 26, 1861 (General).
- July 21, 1862 (Civil Engineers and Educational Department).
- February 13, 1863 (Judges).
- September 14, 1865 (Leave).
- December 14, 1865 (Writers).
- September 25, 1871 (Verbal Amendment).
- November 23, 1873 (Abolition of Office).
- March 4, 1876 (Re-employment after Abolition.)

(Where no Minute is referred to, the Minute of July, 1861, is generally that form which the Statement is taken).

All public Servants on the permanent Establishment of the Colony drawing salaries of 25l. a-year and upwards are entitled to pension.

The right to pension accrues after 10 completed years of service, when fifteen-sixtieths may be claimed; after that every completed year entitles the public servant to the addition of one-sixtieth up to forty-sixtieths.

The following officers are entitled to twenty-sixtieths after ten years' service, and one-sixtieth for each additional completed year up to forty-sixtieths.

The Surveyor-General, Assistant-Surveyors, Draughtsmen.

The Civil Engineer and Commissioner of Roads, and his assistants on the fixed establishment of the Colony (M. of 21st July, 1862).

Judges who after 15 or any great number of years of completed service, as such Judges, "are unable to continue efficiently to discharge the duties of their office," shall be entitled to a pension not exceeding one-half their salary. (M. of 5th December, 1846).

Judges compelled by ill health to retire after a service of 7 but less than 15 years' service, may receive a pension not exceeding one-fourth of their salary. (M., 5 December, 1846.)

* In Barbados the Superannuation Fund is provided by deductions from Salaries.
† In British Guiana and Jamaica there is a deduction of 4 per cent. from salaries, which goes to form a Widows' and Orphans' Fund.
‡ Added under circular of 14th June, 1875. See page 227.
Any public servant of the Colony elevated to be Governor of Ceylon shall, upon retiring from such office, be entitled to the same pension as if he had continued to hold the office which he vacated when he was appointed Governor, but if he be under 55 years, and if other employment be offered him, which the Treasury consider he may properly be required to accept, his pension shall be suspended during such re-employment, or if he decline it, then until he attain the age of 55 years.

"In case of the elevation of the Queen's Advocate to the Bench of the Supreme Court, half of his period of service as Queen's Advocate shall be reckoned towards his pension" (s. 6 of M. of July 1861), less three-fourths of his leave on half salary (M., February, 1863).

"It will be competent to Her Majesty's Government in cases of peculiar and extraordinary merit, to grant special and higher rates of pension than those laid down in this Minute." (Section 10, M. 1861.)

"The period of service upon which the superannuation allowance of all public officers appointed to the public service taking leave of absence in the regular manner, with abatement of salary, will be calculated, will be at the rate of one month for every two months of such leave. Absences in excess of the period for which half-salary may be allowed under the 115th Colonial Regulations will not count as service."

The above Rule shall apply to all public servants who shall have been appointed since the 1st of September, 1852. But those appointed before that date will only be granted leave in excess of the period allowed by Section 115 of the Colonial Regulations on condition of such additional leave not counting towards pension.

As regards Judges, the above rule only applies to such as were appointed since the 1st of December, 1862. In the case of any Queen's Advocate being hereafter (13th February, 1863) appointed a Judge of the Supreme Court, one-fourth only of the period of any leave of absence granted to such officer during his service as Queen's Advocate will be reckoned in considering his pension.

Writers appointed before the 30th of July, 1853, will date the commencement of their claim to pension from the date of their appointment as writers; and so as to writers appointed between the 30th of July, 1853, and prior to the 1st of January, 1863. Provided in respect of such latter, that in case of those who have not yet passed the prescribed examination as to their general attainments and proficiency in the native language, and as to their competency to fill an appointment in the service, this claim shall remain as at present contingent on their eventually passing the prescribed examination. (M., 14th December, 1865.)

Every officer on the Provisional Establishment will, in the event of transfer to the fixed establishment, be entitled to reckon his temporary service when it is continuous with his subsequent service.

The benefits of the pension scheme extend to officers on the provisional establishment of the Education Department of Ceylon drawing more than 25l. per annum, who shall have passed an examination as to their qualifications according to the regulations adopted for that purpose by the School Commission. (M., 21st July, 1862.)

---

**Minute by the Governor.**

His Excellency the Governor, under instructions from the Right Honourable the Secretary of State, has been pleased to direct that the following rules, providing for special rates of pension in the case of abolition of office, be added to and incorporated with the regulation for the grant of pension laid down in the Minute of 26th July, 1861, and shall have effect from the date of the Minute, but will not be taken as retrospective.

To persons who shall have served twenty years and upwards, a period of ten years shall be added to their actual service in computing their retiring allowance.

To persons who shall have served under twenty years and not less than fifteen years, a period of seven years shall be added.

To persons who shall have served under fifteen years and not less than ten, a period of five years shall be added.

To persons who shall have served under ten years and not less than five, a gratuity shall be granted calculated at the rate of month's pay for each year's service, with an additional allowance of three months' pay.

To persons who shall have served less than five years, a gratuity shall be awarded calculated at the rate of one month's pay for each year's service, with one month's pay added.

In case of persons who, if they served the time granted by this Minute for compensation would be over 55 years, and who may retire through abolition of office, the above regulations will not be binding on the Governor in Council, but each particular case will be decided according to the view that may be taken after a full consideration of all the circumstances attending it.

By His Excellency's command,

(Signed) **Arthur N. Birch**, Colonial Secretary.

Colonial Secretary's Office, Colombo, 28th November, 1873.

---

**Minute by the Governor.**

Under instructions from the Right Honourable the Secretary of State, His Excellency the Governor is pleased to notify that in the case of officers to whom temporary allowances may be assigned, in accordance with the 16th clause of the Minute of the 26th July, 1861, on the abolition or re-organization of their offices, and who may be afterwards re-employed in the public service, one half of the period during which they have been in the receipt of such allowance will be allowed to count towards pension on their final retirement from the service.

This privilege will, however, be restricted to the cases of officers whose appointments carry a claim
to pension at the time their services are temporarily discontinued, either by having been borne on the fixed establishment of the colony, or by having had such claim to pension specially conceded to them, although on the provisional establishment.

By His Excellency's command,

(Signed) ARTHUR N. BIRCH, Colonial Secretary.

Colonial Secretary's Office, Colombo, 4th March, 1876.

HONG KONG PENSION MINUTE.

EXTRACTS.

2. Subject to the exceptions and provisions hereinafter contained, all public servants holding offices named in Civil List Ordinance, or offices described in the annual estimates as the Fixed Establishment of the Colony, and drawing salaries of thirty pounds a year and upwards, shall be entitled to pensions as follows:

To any person who shall have served ten years and upwards and under eleven years, an annual allowance of fifteen-sixtieths of the annual salary of his office.

For eleven years and under twelve years an annual allowance of sixteen-sixtieths of such salary.

And in like manner a further addition to the annual allowance of one-sixtieth in respect of each additional year of such service until the completion of a period of service of thirty-five years, when the annual allowance of forty-sixtieths may be granted, and no addition shall be made in respect of any service beyond thirty-five years.

3. The Chief Justice, provided he shall not have served in any other office in the Colony, shall be entitled to a pension after seven years' service; at which time an allowance of three years' additional service shall be made to him; such pension to increase at the rate of two years' service for each additional year he serves until an allowance of ten years' additional service has been made to him; after which his pension shall increase at the same rate only as other officers, until he shall have reached twenty-five years' service, when he may receive the full allowance of forty-sixtieths of his annual salary, and no addition shall be made for any service beyond twenty-five years.

4. The Colonial Chaplain, provided that previous to his appointment in such capacity he shall not have served in other offices in the Colony, shall be entitled after ten years' and under eleven years' service, to pension at the rate of twenty-sixtieths of the annual salary of his office, increasing an additional sixtieth for every additional year's service, until the completion of thirty years' service, when the annual allowance of forty-sixtieths may be granted, and no addition shall be made in respect of any service beyond thirty years. The Surveyor-General and the Assistant Surveyor-General, when debarred from private practice, shall be allowed the benefit of five additional years in regard of pension on the ground of professional services.

5. Any public servant of the Colony who may be elevated to the office of Governor of Hong Kong shall, on his retirement from that office, be entitled to the same pension as if he had continued to hold the office which he vacated when he was appointed Governor and (supposing him not to be fifty-five years of age) as if he had retired from ill-health. Provided that if there shall be offered to any such ex-Governor being under the age of fifty-five years any public office or situation under the Crown which, having reference as well to the state of his health as to the nature of his previous services, such ex-Governor may, in the judgment of the Lords Commissioners of H.M.'s Treasury, be properly called upon to accept; it shall be competent to the said Lords Commissioners to declare, should he decline the same, that the pension of such ex-Governor shall be suspended until he shall attain the age of fifty-five years.

8. No pension shall be granted to any public servant who shall be under fifty-five years of age, unless upon certificate from the head of the department to which he may belong, and from two medical practitioners, that he is incapable, from infirmity of mind or body, to discharge the duties of his situation; nor unless he shall have discharged those duties with diligence and fidelity, to the satisfaction of the head of his department. And in case the officer claiming such pension shall be himself the head of a department, then such pension shall not be granted unless he shall have discharged the duties of his office with diligence and fidelity, to the satisfaction of the Governor, by whom the same shall be certified by the Secretary of State.

9. It will be competent to Her Majesty's Government, in cases of peculiar and extraordinary merit, to grant special and higher rates of pension than those laid down in this Minute, but not exceeding the full amount of the salary.

11. The claim of a public servant to pension will be considered to have commenced from the date of his first permanent appointment to the Fixed Establishment of this Colony; service on the Temporary Establishment of this Colony will, however, be allowed to count for pension when such service shall have been continuous, with a subsequent permanent appointment. In the case of public officers appointed from home (except cadets) their services will be reckoned from the date of the Secretary of State's despatch, notifying the appointment to the Governor.

12. Cadets appointed in pursuance of the regulations published in the "Government Gazette" of 12th October, 1861, will date the commencement of their claims to pension from the period at which the Board of Examiners may declare them qualified for Government interpreters.

16. The period of service upon which the superannuation allowance of all officers appointed to the public service, taking leave of absence in the regular manner with abatement of salary, will be calculated, will be at the rate of one month for every two months of such leave. Absences in excess of the period for which half-salary may be allowed under the 115th Colonial Regulation will not count as service.

18. Should the time of service not warrant the assignment of an annual allowance, a gratuity may be granted after the rate of one month's salary for each year of service.

Victoria, Hong Kong, 5th May, 1862.
### Table Showing the Rates of Pension Payable to the Public Officers of the Colony of Hong Kong Under the Preceding Minute

| Chief Justices who have not previously served in any other Office in the Colony | Colonial Chaplains who have not previously served in any other Office in the Colony | All other Officers returned in the Civil List, or described as Fixed Establishment in the Annual Estimates, and who are in receipt of Salaries of 30L a-year and upwards |
|---|---|---|
| **Portions of the Annual Salary of the Office** | **Portions of the Annual Salary of the Office** | **Portions of the Annual Salary of the Office** |
| After 7 years' service... | After 10 years' service... | After 10 years' service... |
| 8 " " " ... ½½ | 11 " " " ... ½½ | 11 " " " ... ½½ |
| 9 " " " ... ½½ | 12 " " " ... ½½ | 12 " " " ... ½½ |
| 10 " " " ... ½½ | 13 " " " ... ½½ | 13 " " " ... ½½ |
| 11 " " " ... ½½ | 14 " " " ... ½½ | 14 " " " ... ½½ |
| 12 " " " ... ½½ | 15 " " " ... ½½ | 15 " " " ... ½½ |
| 13 " " " ... ½½ | 16 " " " ... ½½ | 16 " " " ... ½½ |
| 14 " " " ... ½½ | 17 " " " ... ½½ | 17 " " " ... ½½ |
| 15 " " " ... ½½ | 18 " " " ... ½½ | 18 " " " ... ½½ |
| 16 " " " ... ½½ | 19 " " " ... ½½ | 19 " " " ... ½½ |
| 17 " " " ... ½½ | 20 " " " ... ½½ | 20 " " " ... ½½ |
| 18 " " " ... ½½ | 21 " " " ... ½½ | 21 " " " ... ½½ |
| 19 " " " ... ½½ | 22 " " " ... ½½ | 22 " " " ... ½½ |
| 20 " " " ... ½½ | 23 " " " ... ½½ | 23 " " " ... ½½ |
| 21 " " " ... ½½ | 24 " " " ... ½½ | 24 " " " ... ½½ |
| 22 " " " ... ½½ | 25 " " " ... ½½ | 25 " " " ... ½½ |
| 23 " " " ... ½½ | 26 " " " ... ½½ | 26 " " " ... ½½ |
| 24 " " " ... ½½ | 27 " " " ... ½½ | 27 " " " ... ½½ |
| 25 " " " ... ½½ | 28 " " " ... ½½ | 28 " " " ... ½½ |
| 26 " " " ... ½½ | 29 " " " ... ½½ | 29 " " " ... ½½ |
| 27 " " " ... ½½ | 30 " " " ... ½½ | 30 " " " ... ½½ |
| 28 " " " ... ½½ | 31 " " " ... ½½ | 31 " " " ... ½½ |
| 29 " " " ... ½½ | 32 " " " ... ½½ | 32 " " " ... ½½ |
| 30 " " " ... ½½ | 33 " " " ... ½½ | 33 " " " ... ½½ |
| 31 " " " ... ½½ | 34 " " " ... ½½ | 34 " " " ... ½½ |
| 32 " " " ... ½½ | 35 " " " ... ½½ | 35 " " " ... ½½ |

---

**STRAITS SETTLEMENTS**

**ORDINANCE No. I OF 1871, PASSED 17TH MAY, 1871.**

An Ordinance for regulating the Pensions of Officers in the Public Service.

1. Every Judge of the Supreme Court after seven years' service as Judge may receive a pension at the rate not exceeding fifteen-sixtieths of his salary, and for each succeeding year of service up to fourteen years, he may receive an addition at the rate of two-sixtieths of his salary for each and every such year's service; after fifteen years' service he may receive a pension at the rate of thirty-sixtieths of his salary, and for each succeeding year's service he may receive an addition at the rate of one-sixtieth of his salary for each and every such year's service up to twenty-five years, when he may receive the full pension of forty-sixtieths of his salary, and no addition shall be made for any service beyond twenty-five years' service, except under the provisions of the 8th section.
2. All public officers borne on the fixed establishment of the colony, who shall have served ten years and upwards, and under eleven years, may receive a pension at the rate of fifteen-sixtieths of the annual salary of their respective offices, with an additional allowance of one-sixtieth, in respect of each additional year of such service until the completion of a period of service of thirty-five years, when the annual allowance of forty-sixtieths may be granted, and no addition shall be made in respect of service beyond thirty-five years.

3. Officers formerly in the Uncovenanted Service of India, whose services have been retained by the Colonial Government, may receive a pension under this Ordinance, and their claim to pension shall commence from the date of their first appointment to the Indian Uncovenanted Service. But in computing the pension of any such officer retiring before the 1st April, 1877, five-sixtieths shall be deducted from the rate prescribed in the second section of this Ordinance.

5. It will be competent to the Governor in Council, subject, as regards the officers borne on the Civil Service Establishment, to the approval of the Secretary of State, to require any public officer to retire on attaining the age of sixty years, and such retirement shall be compulsory on such officer.

7. No pension shall be granted to any officer under fifty-five years of age, Judges excepted, unless upon certificate from the head of the department to which he may belong and from two medical practitioners, that he is incapable, from infirmity of mind or body, to discharge the duties of his situation, nor unless the head of his department (or if the officer retiring be himself the head of the department, the Governor) shall have certified to the Secretary of State that he has discharged the duties of his office with such diligence and fidelity as to justify the grant of a pension.

8. It will be competent to the Secretary of State for the Colonies in cases of peculiar and extraordinary merit to sanction the grant of special and higher rates of pension than those laid down in this Ordinance.

10. The claim of an officer to pension will be considered to have commenced from the date of his first permanent appointment to the fixed establishment of the colony, or to the temporary establishment, if his service therein, and in a subsequent permanent appointment shall have been continuous. In the case of an officer appointed from home, other than a cadet, his service will be reckoned from the date of his commencing to receive colonial pay.

11. An officer who has commenced his services as a cadet on the Civil Establishment of the Colony will reckon his claim to pension from the date of his appointment, if within twenty-four months from that date he has passed an examination in one native language, but otherwise from the date of his passing such examination.

14. In case of reduction or abolition of office, temporary allowances may be assigned agreeably to the specified rates, on condition, however, that the parties receiving the same will be liable to be recalled into service, and with the understanding that they are to be re-employed as opportunity may offer, in preference to new applicants for office.

15. Absence on leave on half salary, not being vacation leave, will be taken into calculation in computing of pension at the rate of one month for every two months of such leave. Absence in excess of the period for which salary may be allowed will not count as service.

16. Should the term of service not warrant the assignment of an annual allowance, a gratuity may be granted at the rate of one month's salary of each year of service.

17. Any public servant of the colony who may be hereafter elevated to the office of Governor of the Colony, shall, on his retirement from that office, be entitled to the same pension as if he had continued to hold the office which he vacated when he was appointed Governor, and (supposing him not to be fifty-five years of age) as if he had retired from ill-health. Provided that if there shall be offered to any such ex-Governor, being under the age of fifty-five years, any public office or situation under the Crown which, having reference as well to the state of his health as to the nature of his previous services, such ex-Governor may, in the judgment of the Secretary of State for the Colonies, be properly called upon to accept, it shall be competent to the said Secretary of State to declare that the pension of such ex-Governor shall be suspended, either during his tenure of such office or situation, in case he shall accept the same, or, in case of his non-acceptance, until he shall attain the age of fifty-five years.

19. Whenever any officer holds an office for the due performance of the duties of which scientific or other peculiar qualifications, not ordinarily to be acquired in the public service, are required, and has been prohibited from the private practice of his profession, a number of years not exceeding five may, at the discretion of the Secretary of State for the Colonies, be added for the purpose of computing his pension to the number of years during which he may have actually served.

20. Nothing in this Ordinance contained shall be held to affect any of the provisions of the Indian Act XIII of 1856, relating to superannuation pensions payable to members of the Police Force in the colony, and no member of such Police Force entitled to superannuation pension, or to relief from the Police Superannuation Fund, shall be held to be entitled to any pension or relief under this Ordinance.
