CANADA.

In Canada there is a constant demand for labour, and industrious, well-conducted emigrants can scarcely fail to succeed there. Artizans, agricultural labourers, and female domestic servants are specially in request. The wages of artizans range from 5s. 6d. to 10s. a-day, and of agricultural labourers from 4s. to 5s. a-day without board. The wages of female domestic servants range, with reference to capacity, from 16s. to 2l. a month, with board. Boys and girls capable of working also find ready employment at fair wages. At the same time, the cost of living is much cheaper than in England.

The greatest demand for labour is in the Western Province of Canada, formerly called Upper Canada, but now Ontario. It is not so great in the Eastern Province, now called Quebec, or in New Brunswick. It is still less in Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island.

There is plenty of land for sale throughout the Provinces of Ontario and Quebec, at prices varying from 1s. 3d. to 4s. an acre, according to situation. In New Brunswick the price is 4l. 3s. for 100 acres to be applied in the making of roads. In Nova Scotia the price is 1s. 9d. an acre. There are also in each division of the Dominion, except Prince Edward Island, special lands set apart for free grant to eligible emigrants; but conditions of occupation and improvement are attached to these grants, to ensure the good faith of those who obtain them.

The persons to whom emigration to Canada offers the greatest advantage are:—1. Tenant Farmers with capital sufficient to purchase and stock farms. 2. Agricultural labourers of every description. 3. Female domestic servants of every description. 4. Mechanics, such as blacksmiths, carpenters, railway labourers, shoemakers, tailors, bricklayers, &c. Those for whom there is no demand are educated persons, such as clerks, shopmen, &c., unaccustomed to manual labour, but not possessed of capital.

The settlers in Ontario are principally of Anglo-Saxon birth, but with some settlements of Germans and other foreigners. In Quebec the bulk of the inhabitants are the descendants of the French colonists settled there previous to the Conquest in 1759. In the other Provinces the settlers are of the same class as in Ontario.

The climate of Canada varies according to situation. The winters, especially in the eastern part of the Dominion, are long and severe, but neither unhealthy nor disagreeable. The cold is tempered by the general stillness of the atmosphere, and the snow offers facilities for sleighing which are both convenient and enjoyable. In proportion as the emigrant proceeds west he will find the winter shorter and less severe. In that part of the Dominion which lies upon, and to the west of Lake Ontario, the winter, though colder, is scarcely longer than in England; the spring is rapid, and the summer scarcely so hot as in the centre of Europe.

Emigrants to Canada should embark as soon after the middle of April as they can, to enable them to find employment and get settled in the ensuing summer and autumn.

The voyage to Quebec in a steamer will occupy from 10 to 12 days, but by a sailing vessel from three to five weeks. The cost of passage, including provisions, has heretofore been by steamer 6l. 6s. per adult, and half that amount for children between 8 and 1. By sailing vessel the cost is from 4l. to 5l. per adult, with the same difference for children between 12 and 1. These prices, however, are subject to variation according to circumstances, and in the case of steamers have lately been reduced by the competition of the various companies which despatch them. The steamers sail on fixed days from the ports of London, Liverpool, and Glasgow, and are regularly advertised in the public papers, with the names and addresses of the agents, from whom all information can be obtained. As the voyage is short, no special outfit beyond the ordinary supply of clothes of the working classes is necessary, but as a general rule bedding is not provided for steerage passengers. Those therefore who possess blankets should bring them, but the berths are not spacious enough to admit large beds or mattresses.

On the arrival of the emigrant at Quebec, he will be received by a Government Emigration officer there, who will afford him whatever information or assistance he may require, either to obtain employment in the neighbourhood or to proceed up the country to seek it. The railroads from Quebec communicate with lines going to all the more important districts of the Dominion, and at Montreal, Ottawa, Kingston, Toronto, and Hamilton there are Government Emigration officers to advise and assist emigrants.
