AUSTRALIA.

The continent of Australia lies between 113° and 153° E. Long., and 11° and 39° S. Lat. Its climate therefore varies very much. It is, however, very healthy, and except in the northern district of Queensland and the northern parts of South Australia is not so hot as to prevent Europeans working in the fields. The seasons are the reverse of those in Europe, midsummer being in the month of December, and midwinter in the month of June.

In the Australian colonies there is ample employment for an unlimited number of emigrants. The wages vary somewhat in each, but as a general rule it may be stated that they are considerably higher than in England or in any country on the continent of Europe. Provisions are at the same time cheap and abundant, and lodgings are not dear. A working man can scarcely fail to improve his condition by emigrating to Australia. The classes most in demand are agricultural labourers, skilled and unskilled, shepherds and stockmen, carpenters, smiths, bricklayers, &c.; and more than all, female domestic servants. For clerks, shopmen, governesses, and persons of that description there is no demand.

In all the colonies land can be obtained without difficulty. The usual system of sale is by auction at an upset price, generally of 1l. an acre. In some of the colonies facilities are afforded for acquiring land by yearly payments of rent, or interest on the price. Conditions of occupation and improvement are
attached to lands acquired under this system. Licenses to occupy extensive runs for the depasturing of sheep and cattle are also granted at inconsiderable rents; but as none except large capitalists, for whom this notice is not intended, can undertake the rearing of flocks and herds, it is unnecessary to describe here the system under which runs are let.

The cost of a passages to Australia, including a full dietary, is about 15l. per adult, and half that amount for children between 1 and 12 years. In Queensland, persons paying the passages of themselves and their families or servants are entitled to land orders for the selection of 40 acres of country land for each passage of an adult, and 20 acres for that of each child between 1 and 12 years. In these cases the holder of the land order receives a license to occupy the land for five years, and if at the end of that time he has resided on the land continuously for three years, and has cultivated one-tenth, or fenced the whole, he is entitled to a free grant.

In South Australia also persons approved by the Emigration Agent in England, and paying the whole cost of their passages, are entitled to receive land-order warrants of the value of 20l. for every adult over 12 years of age, and 10l. for every child between the ages of 1 and 12. These warrants are exchanged in the colony for land orders, which entitle the holder to occupy, reside on, and cultivate the Crown lands, and are taken as payment or part payment of the purchase of land; but no land grant is issued in respect of them until the holder has resided two years in the colony.

In Tasmania assisted passages are granted to the nominees of colonists; and emigrants paying their own passages out to that Colony and to Western Australia are entitled under certain settlement conditions to small grants of land varying from 10 to 30 acres. The price of Crown land laid out for special occupation in Western Australia is fixed at 10s. an acre.

The average length of the voyage to Australia is not less than three months, and as the emigrant will pass through both hot and cold latitudes, he should provide himself with as much good clothing as he can afford. If possible he should have not less than six shirts besides two of flannel, six pairs of stockings, two complete suits of strong clothes, two pairs of boots or shoes, four towels, and two lbs. of yellow soap. The outfit of females should be in proportion. Three sheets should also be provided for each berth. The wear and tear of clothing on shipboard is considerable, and the more therefore an emigrant has the better. The quantity of luggage allowed to each steerage passenger is from 10 to 20 cubic feet according to agreement. All luggage should be packed in strong cases and properly marked.

Ships sail for Australia at regular intervals from London, Liverpool, Glasgow, and other ports. The dates of sailing, and the names of the agents, from whom all particulars can be ascertained, are published in the daily papers. The agents in London for the Australian Colonies are—

New South Wales.—W. Forster, Esq., No. 3, Westminster Chambers, Victoria Street, Westminster.
Victoria.—A. Michie, Esq., Q.C., No. 8, Victoria Chambers, Victoria Street, Westminster.
Queensland.—A. M. McAlister, Esq., No. 92, Charing Cross, Westminster.
South Australia.—The Agent-General, No. 37, Great George Street, Westminster.

There are also emigration agents at the ports of arrival of the several colonies to give advice and assistance to emigrants, and depôts are provided in which female emigrants seeking engagements may find temporary accommodation.
