BRITISH GUIANA.
No. 12 of 1875.

An Ordinance to provide for the Payment of Pensions and Retiring Allowances to the Public Servant of the Colony.

WHEREAS by Ordinance No. 22 of the year 1860, provision was made for the payment of superannuation or retiring allowances to the public servants of the colony by an abatement at the rate of four dollars per centum per annum from their salaries or official incomes; and whereas at the annual meeting of the Honorable the Court of Policy of the colony of British Guiana, combined with the financial representatives of the inhabitants thereof, it was, on the 29th day of May, 1871, resolved, that the present abatement from the salaries of public officers for superannuation allowance shall in future form a fund for
providing pensions for the widows and children of deceased public officers, and that the superannuation allowances to public officers under the existing system should be continued without any abatement from the salaries for that purpose; and whereas by other resolutions of the said combined court it was on the 29th day of May, 1873, and on the 11th of and 22nd days June, 1875, further resolved that pensions and retiring allowances should be paid to public officers of the amount and on the conditions hereinafter contained: Be it therefore enacted by His Excellency the Governor of British Guiana, with the advice and consent of the Court of Policy thereof, as follows:—

1. Every public servant at the time of the passing of this Ordinance holding any of the offices named in the Civil List Ordinance or described in the annual estimates as fixed establishments of the colony, and drawing a salary of one hundred and forty-four dollars and upwards, shall be entitled to a pension calculated at the rate of one-fiftieth of the annual salary of the office he may hold at the time of his retiring or becoming superannuated for each year he shall have been in the public service up to thirty-five years; but no addition shall be made in respect of any service beyond thirty-five years: Provided always that the public offices before referred to shall be taken to include all offices, or appointments, the holders of which have become entitled to superannuation allowances under Ordinance No. 22 of the year 1860.

2. Every public servant entering the public service after the passing of this Ordinance, and holding any of the offices named in the Civil List Ordinance or described in the annual estimates as fixed establishments of the colony, and drawing a salary of one hundred and forty-four dollars and upwards, shall be entitled to a pension calculated at the rate of one-fiftieth of the average annual amount such public servant shall have received for the three years last preceding the time when he retires or becomes superannuated for each year he shall have been in the public service up to thirty-five years; but no addition shall be made in respect of any service beyond thirty-five years.

3. No public servant shall be entitled to retire from the public service of this colony on a pension under the provisions of this Ordinance unless he shall have been ten years in the service of the colony, or in the case of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court seven years, and no public servant under the age of fifty-five years shall be entitled so to retire unless it shall be proved to the satisfaction of the governor and Court of Policy that such public servant is incapable from infirmity of mind or body to discharge the duties of his office, and that such infirmity is likely to be permanent.

4. The Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, provided he shall not have served in any other office in the colony, shall, after seven years' service as Chief Justice, be entitled to a pension of eleven-fiftieths of his salary, and for each succeeding year of service up to and including fourteen years an addition of two-fiftieths of his salary, and for each succeeding year after fifteen years' service an addition of one-fiftieth of his salary up to twenty-four years' service; but no addition shall be made in respect of any years' service beyond twenty-four years.

5. Every puisne judge of the Supreme Court, provided he shall not have served in any other office in the colony, shall after ten years' service be entitled to a pension of fifteen-fiftieths of his salary, and for each succeeding year of service to an addition of one-fiftieth of his salary up to thirty years' service; but no addition shall be made in respect of any service beyond thirty years.

6. The privates and other members of the Police Force, except the Inspector-General, Inspectors, and Clerks, shall not come under the provisions of this Ordinance.

7. The service, in respect of which any pension or retiring allowance shall be calculated under the provisions of this Ordinance, must be continuous, except when the officer shall have been absent from the performance of the duties of his office with the permission of the Government; and the service of every public servant shall for the purposes of this Ordinance be taken to commence from the date of his first permanent appointment to any office under the Government, save and except as regards the special pensions to the Chief Justice and puisne judges of the Supreme Court as provided in sections four and five of this Ordinance, and further save and except as hereinafter provided.

8. The service of public servants heretofore and still in the service of the colony who being in receipt of salaries exceeding six hundred dollars per annum, did not, by failing to contribute to the superannuation fund, become entitled to pensions under Ordinance No. 22 of the year 1860, establishing such superannuation fund, shall for the purposes of this Ordinance be taken to commence from the first day of June of the year 1871: Provided always that every such public servant may if he shall think fit pay to the Colonial Receiver-General or Assistant Receiver-General, either in cash or in thirty-six equal monthly instalments, a sum equal to two per centum upon the salary or official income received by him during his past service up to the commencement of Ordinance No. 22 of the year 1860, and a further sum equal to four per centum upon the salary or official income received by him from the date of the commencement of the said Ordinance up to the first day of June, one thousand eight hundred and seventy-one.

9. It shall be lawful for the governor with the consent of the Court of Policy to pay to any public servant who, being the holder of an office in respect of which a pension is granted by this Ordinance, may be constrained from infirmity of body or mind to leave the public service before the completion of the period which would entitle him to such pension, such sum of money, by way of retiring allowance, as the governor and Court of Policy may think proper, not exceeding the amount of one month's salary or official income of such office for each year of service: Provided that no such retiring allowance shall be granted, unless upon medical certificate, to the satisfaction of the governor and Court of Policy, that such public servant is incapable from infirmity of mind or body to discharge the duties of his office, and that such infirmity is likely to be permanent.

10. If at any time any public servant shall have been, or shall be deprived of his office by reason of the abolition thereof, it shall be lawful for the governor and the Court of Policy to determine the terms upon which such public servant shall, on appointment to some other office, be entitled to the benefit of the provisions hereof in respect of the period for which he may have been or shall be unemployed; or in the event of his not being again employed in the public service to determine what gratuity or pension, if any, shall be granted to such public servant for the period during which he has been in the public service of this colony.

11. No public servant who has resigned his office or been dismissed from the service and no public
servant who shall hereafter resign, or be dismissed from his office for misconduct, shall be entitled to the benefit of the provisions thereof.

12. Every public servant who after holding any office in this colony for the space of five years and upwards may have been subsequently to the 29th May, 1873, or who may hereafter be appointed by Her Majesty to any public office in any other part of Her Majesty's dominions, shall be entitled on his final retirement from the service of Her Majesty, whether from infirmity or by reason of his being superannuated, to demand and receive from the government of this colony a pension, at the rate of one-fiftieth of the salary or official income of the office last held by him in this colony for each year during which he shall have been in the public service of this colony.

13. In any case in which the income of a public servant shall be derived from fees, or partly from fees and salary, such public servant shall, within fourteen days from the expiration of each quarter, furnish the Receiver-General with a certificate under the hand of the Auditor-General of the amount of fees received by him during such quarter; and if any such public servant shall fail to furnish such certificate within the space of fourteen days as aforesaid, he shall be deemed to have forfeited all claim to any pension or retiring allowance in respect of the fees of his office.

14. In all cases where any doubt shall arise, the governor and Court of Policy shall have full power and authority to determine who shall be considered public officers of this colony within the meaning of this Ordinance, and to decide all questions which may arise in respect to the period of service to be allowed in computing the claims of public servants under this Ordinance, and likewise all questions that may arise in respect to the retiring allowance or pension to be granted to any officer whose official income may have been at any time, or may be derived, from fees or partly from fees and salary, and also all other questions of whatever nature which may arise in connection with the provisions hereof.

15. Whereas by section 10 of Ordinance No. 22 of the year 1860, it was provided that after the expiration of ten years' service, the governor and Court of Policy in computing the pensions to be granted to the Attorney-General, the Government Secretary, and the Surgeon-General, might add to the service of each such officer any number of years not exceeding five, it is hereby enacted that such provision shall remain in full force and effect as regards the present holders of the said offices respectively; but every person hereafter appointed to any of the said offices shall have no greater or other privileges than any other officer in the public service entitled to a pension under the provisions of this Ordinance.

16. That the governor of the colony shall have the power at any time after a public servant shall have attained the age of sixty-five years and been ten years in the public service of the colony, to require such servant to retire from the public service under the provisions of this Ordinance.

17. This Ordinance shall take effect from and after the proclamation by the governor in the Official Gazette that the same has been sanctioned and confirmed by Her Majesty; and from and after the taking effect hereof, Ordinance No. 22 of 1860 shall be repealed, but all retiring allowances due and payable under the said Ordinance shall hereafter be due and payable out of the general revenue of the colony under this Ordinance, and all retiring allowances paid on and after 1st June, 1871, and charged to the superannuation fund under Ordinance No. 22 of 1860, shall be transferred from the said fund and charged against the general revenue of the colony.

And that no ignorance may be pretended of this our Ordinance, these presents shall be printed and published in the customary manner.

Thus done and enacted at our adjourned quarterly assembly, held at the Guiana Public Buildings, Georgetown, Demerara, this thirtieth day of July, one thousand eight hundred and seventy-five, and published on the seventh of August following.

By Command of the Court,
CHAS. PIERCY AUSTIN, Acting Secretary.
